---
title: "How He Makes $120K Monthly on YouTube (The Full Breakdown)"
id: qBEKL3BcMBU
source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBEKL3BcMBU&t=1830s
channel: vidIQ Podcasts
date_uploaded: 2026-06-26
duration: 41:20
tags: []
---

# How He Makes $120K Monthly on YouTube (The Full Breakdown)

 We're running around 40 automated channels right now. We're getting around 1.5 to 2 billion views a month. And last month, we generated $120,000 in AdSense revenue. A week ago, he was at $7,040,000. Now he's at $71,000,000. You go from 7 to 70 million in a week. And they only have 80,000 subscribers, which is even crazier. That first $103,000 payout he got, he actually just bought a supercar. Same day. And then he posted this. He was like, best scam ever. Thanks so much, Devin. Hey, welcome back to The Only Podcast. It's here to help you make money, even if you don't do long-form content. I'm Travis, and I'm here every single week to bring you some of the coolest and hottest tips on YouTube. And today, I got Devin Sinath here to help us with that. Devin, how are you doing? I'm doing great, man. How about you, Travis? I am super excited to dig in. And if you're new here, this is what we do every week. I talk to different creators and people in the industry that are helping make you a better creator and hopefully change your channel into a business. And if you're listening to the Audio Only Podcast, there'll be links in the description and in the show notes to help you find out more. All right, Devin. First of all, who the heck are you? What do you do? Let's start into that, and then we'll get more into some of the things you do. Yeah, bro. So, I mean, let's get into it. So, my name is Devin Sinath. I'm currently running a lot of YouTube short channels. We have a YouTube short empire. We're running around 40 automated channels right now that basically we have equity in. We're basically scaling en masse. We're getting around 1.5 to 2 billion views a month right now. And last month, we generated $120,000 in AdSense revenue just across the personal channels that we're running right now. And then we're also helping a lot of people scale as well. We have lots of people that we work with that we help bring up. And, you know, I can't wait to get into all that. That's amazing. How did you get started? What were you doing before all this? Like, what was Devin doing just a couple years ago? So, I mean, a couple years ago, I was doing dropshipping. And I basically was just taking products from China and trying to market it. And, yeah, I mean, that's the main thing I was doing before that. Like, I actually went through a YouTube era, then dropshipping, then back to YouTube. I was like, this is my bread and butter. Was dropshipping like something that was helping you sustain yourself? Or was it kind of a failed experiment? How was that? So, I'm 20 years old. So, I really didn't need to sustain myself a couple years ago because I was living with my parents at the time. But I was making good money. I had my best month was a $20,000 month in revenue. But that was only around $7,000-ish in profit because, you know, dropshipping margins are insanely low. So, how did you come to learn all the things you're now kind of teaching on YouTube Shorts? Because YouTube Shorts is something that a lot of people want to crack. There's a lot of views in Shorts. The monetization part is kind of real fuzzy. You hear people just like you talking about all this money that can be made. But we also know that CPMs and stuff are kind of low because of what Shorts are. How did you learn about this stuff? Was it someone you saw or what happened? Yeah, this is a really great story. I love sharing this all the time. So, first thing, a lot of people think that, you know, Shorts is not a good revenue stream. Because everyone always talks about long-form. YouTube is a long-form video platform. And people don't think, you know, Shorts is not really a good way to make money. Like, RPMs are like they see like $0.40 or even $0.30. And they're like, oh my gosh, like I'm not touching that, right? But originally when I actually got into it, I actually came from dropshipping when I was trying to make money. And then I ended up making money from Shorts. So, the story was I ran this product. It was like a little Kia truck that you could like remote control. And I grew that on Instagram. And I was just trying to get more, you know, sales on my dropshipping store. So, around a couple years ago, I started posting these dropshipping videos of the Shorts onto my Shortform. I ended up getting that channel monetized and ended up growing to like $7,000 in like the next month. So, I ended up making $7,000 from the YouTube. And then I had the dropshipping that was ultimately... I was like, wait, I don't have to do anything with this. And then I could just make more money from the YouTube. And I got into it more. I started scaling more channels. And then, you know, I really like... I was watching a lot of Mr. Beast back then. I was really trying to just understand how can I maximize, you know, the most amount of money here. And then, eventually, I started scaling into more channels. So, I got into ranking and then ranking commentary. And then I got into, you know, biker commentary. I got into Roblox animation. I had Roblox channels. And we'll show it all later. And I'll show you guys all the channels and stuff. But, you know, when I was originally starting, I really didn't think I'd be able to make this much money. But Shorts can bring in so much revenue. You know, the worry that, like, RPMs are low, well, you end up getting a, you know, billion views. The RPM really doesn't make that much of a difference compared to long form. And one last thing. I mean, like, Shorts help long form channels grow, which is something I really want to get into later. Yeah. So, you know, there's a lot of people that you see online, especially on Twitter, if you're on Twitter or X, that say, you know, I have these Shorts channels. They're making all this money. And you never really know if, like, it's a real thing. It always seems cool. A lot of people think it's engagement bait. And I know you've been, people have attacked you and said, hey, you know, it's fake. He's showing stuff that isn't real. And one of the things we talked about before we went live is, like, I want to see the real numbers. And you have said in no uncertain terms, okay, I'm going to show you. So talk to us about what that was like when someone came at you and then what the reality is of all that. Well, I've been attacked for, like, things before. I mean, it's pretty normal. I mean, like, when you see someone, you know, doing really well in anything, you're going to be, of course, suspicious. The main thing that people even attacked me for in the first place was because someone basically said, hey, you're a viewer of this channel and you're showing this on your channel. That doesn't make any sense. So let's get into that, right? Right now, you know, my business model, when I'm scaling, I basically have a lot of YouTube Shorts. I have seven AdSense accounts. If you don't know what an AdSense account is, you basically, you need an AdSense account to get paid on YouTube. If you have multiple AdSense accounts, YouTube will actually terminate all of them, right? If they detect that, they terminate all of them. Same thing for channels as well, right? If you have one channel underneath the same email, if you start running a multiple channels underneath the email, one gets terminated. Guess what? All your channels are gone. So my way to kind of combat this is actually anytime I make a new channel, I basically make it underneath a new email. And then on Google, you can only have to have the 10 accounts on that Google account, right? So if you add another one, it actually signs you out of one or signs you out of all of them. So what I did is after making all these email accounts, I made myself a manager or viewer or editor underneath these channels, underneath one email. That way I can manage everything. And that's where the suspicion kind of came from in the first place. And here's a channel right now that we've been working with for the past like year or so. Really, you can kind of see, actually it's right around like eight months or so I've been working with him. And what's crazy is I actually met up with this guy yesterday. I did an IRL interview with this guy yesterday. It was really fun. His name is Rith. He has a pretty big shorts channel. And actually, there's a picture of me and him yesterday. It was really fun meeting up with him. But, you know, one thing that kind of happens is when people say, hey, you don't really know what you're talking about with shorts. Well, I want to kind of show you the shorts growth for this channel. And then I'm going to go through more and more and more and show you everything. So for this channel here, you can kind of see this was actually a long form channel. A lot of you guys run long form channels. Long form is kind of your thing. We're trying to scale, trying to build a personal brand or even faceless long form. And you can see he was making very good money. You know, this is $200,000 in long form the past year. It's really good, right? He has 5 million or 4 million subs when he joined. I started working with him. And as he started joining and scaling, basically we started scaling up his shorts. So I want to show you guys kind of the shorts growth here. And show you guys what kind of the growth can look like when you're scaling short form content. So here's the shorts. This is 1.5 million views in the past around 5 months or so. And this is basically someone who was not doing shorts at all to joining and then starting scaling up shorts like crazy. And at some point during this, we were making a consistent $4,000, $5,000 a day. Now we're down to like $2,000, $1,000 a day. And this is just one example. I have so many examples of this on my channel. For example, like this is another guy. I mean, this is a channel that we actually helped scale together. And I can even show you this. This channel actually only started a couple months ago, like around like six months ago as well. This is $40,000. And really, a lot of people kind of get worried and think like, okay, well, shorts is not sustainable. This is an only shorts-based channel, right? And you can go to the revenue here. I can show you. There's not a long-term video on it. This is all shorts. You can see that $0.06 RPM that people kind of get scared about. This is $40,000 in around like eight months. And this is completely automated. We have editors in place who edit these videos and do it all for us as well. Here's another example, right? This is a channel that we actually only started working with around six weeks ago now. And you can kind of see they were in a pretty big dip over here as well. And you can kind of see the just kind of flatline. We had a little pickup here. It was flat. And then we have a huge push. Yesterday, this channel had a 71 million 48-hour mark. It was insane. And here, I'll actually show you this as well, actually. I mean, right now, they're at a 57 million view 48-hour mark, which is insane to think about. And they only have 80,000 subscribers, which is even crazier. Yeah, you don't need a lot of subs. This is the guy right here. I mean, like, he basically – a week ago, he was at 7 million 48-hour. Now he's at 71 million. A lot of people also think as well. It's another misconception people have that, like, you know, long form takes a little bit longer of scale because you need to build up that audience and it takes a little bit longer. With shorts, it's just instant. You know what to do? You go from 7 to 70 million in a week. You know, you can see this giant jump. I mean, this is, like, you know, went from, like, $1 to $400 a day and then $400 to almost $4,000 in a day. And this is, like, in the span of one week. Yeah. And I'm looking – for those listening to the audio-only podcast, I'm looking at a timescale of, like, a month and a half where nothing really was happening. And then all of a sudden, there's millions, tens of millions of views and thousands of dollars per day. And this is someone that you've helped? Is that who this is? Right, right. This is one of my students. He actually joined, like, a week ago. No, wait. He joined a month and a half ago. I'm sorry. Yeah, he joined a month and a half ago. His name is Marcus. He's a goaded guy. Yeah. But, I mean, like, you know, for example, you have channels like this as well. I mean, like, you can have, again, explosive growth with YouTube. This is a channel that we actually – we own this channel. And we can see this explosive growth here. I mean, we were getting, like, literally no views. Instant explosion. And then it dropped back down because the channel didn't get demonetized. And then we ended up monetizing it back. And it's making some money now, you know. But you can kind of see how explosive YouTube can be. Yeah. I actually wanted to ask you about that. So because when I had 10 download on, this has happened to him a couple times or people he's known, where some of these channels get demonetized. What type of content, generally speaking, are you guys doing? And how often does it get demonetized? So typically I'm doing ranking content or clipping of people's content, doing ranking commentary. We do run a lot of Roblox channels, Minecraft channels as well. We run Minecraft meme commentary. Like, all of those niches I just listed are golden niches to get into right now. As for demonetization, it kind of goes a little bit all over the place. Because sometimes you'll get randomly demonetized for, like, reuse. You know, the reuse and inauthentic swept that went around recently. But, you know, we have YouTube reps in place. So I have a personal YouTube rep that kind of manages my channels. And then in that, because we have him on our team, a lot of our channels don't get demonetized. Now, there's not really a criteria of, like, if you do this, you'll get demonetized. Because YouTube sometimes messes up. And I realized this a couple years ago. Because I used to actually run all my stuff underneath one AdSense account and one email. And then I had, like, five accounts. All of them got demonetized. And I went back into it. And I was like, okay, I need to do this a different way. Which is what happened with the viewer and manager. How I run all these on multiple channels now. Or multiple emails. The main reason why I have so many channels in the first place is, one, because my lifetime goal is to get to 1 trillion views. So short form content on mass scale is going to help me get there. I'm at, like, 31 billion right now. But also revenue diversity. Right? So, like, if one channel gets demonetized, well, good thing I have 39 other channels that's bringing in revenue, you know? Well, I also noticed. And this is actually the same thing happened to Tim Danilov. Where once that thing kind of got demonetized, it really hasn't recovered since. Is that something you've noticed? Or at least it doesn't seem like it has. Honestly. So, I work with a lot of channels. We get a lot of data sets here. The reason why this one hasn't picked back up is because just the overall niche has kind of died down. It's very saturated now. If you have a channel that is doing well and then it gets demonetized, if you keep uploading on it and then it gets monetized back, it'll get pushed back up again. That's usually not an issue. Demonetization does not mean, like, the channel is just done. I'm curious because we've actually had Rene Ritchie from YouTube on and talked a little bit about monetization versus views. And whenever anyone asks, hey, you know, do monetize views get more views? What's been your experience? Obviously, YouTube says they're not the same. They're not connected. What has been your experience? Do they seem to be connected? Like, do your channels, before they get monetized, seem to get more views after they're monetized? Or is it about the same? I think about everything from a business perspective here. So, when I'm doing all this, I run myself like a business. I don't think like a YouTuber. A lot of these guys who are making money on YouTube, they think, like, I'm going to upload videos and then hopefully it gets views. But, like, if you think about it, how is YouTube actually making money in the first place, right? So, we have Google advertisers who are spending money on Google for ad placements. And then the ad placements get shown in our videos or the short form feed. And then we get paid a percentage of that. So, if YouTube is making money from our videos, then they'll push out our videos further, right? Because, at the end of the day, YouTube is not just a social media platform. They're a business, right? YouTube wants to make money. So, I haven't really seen anything about, like, oh, okay, I wasn't getting that much views. And then, like, it was really hard to get monetized or something. And then when I got monetized, it instantly just started picking back up. No, like, if you just make really, really good content, you increase your trust score, you know, you're getting really good push, you're in a really golden niche, and you're doing all those things, your views will go up instantly. Like, I've had channels before that, like, we upload, and it just goes, first video, 10 million views. You know, that has happened before. How are you picking these niches in a way that, not guarantees, but really stacks the deck in your favor? So, I usually do my niche research. I have a niche research team now, but before, when I was kind of picking everything, I would honestly just look at competitors and see what they were doing, right? The market is your best teacher. If you look at what other people are doing, and you have the skill to replicate it, it's going to be so easy for you to scale as well. Like, I don't think of original ideas, man. I look at other people's videos or see other niches that are doing well. I see a channel that got, like, 400 million views this month. I look at it, I break it down. I'm like, okay, why are they getting these views? Is there anyone else in their niche? Nope, they're number one. Why are they number one? Okay, they're doing ranking videos, and they're only doing it on animals. Well, all their outlier videos for animals are parrot videos. Let me make a ranking parrot channel, and then I make that channel, and then it starts picking up. I always talk about in these episodes that YouTube is about, especially for people who want to do this full time, is about having a business. And you have to have, even if you're just a creator and don't think about those things, at some point you have to come to the point where you have to be a business person. And I like the idea of diversification in this way because it might be that, it might be a long form content creator, like myself. I consider myself a long form content creator that wants to do more interesting long form stuff, but maybe it takes money or whatever, or maybe you have a full time job that takes so much time that you can't get around to it. What if you could subsidize your passion project with something that just makes money by changing your mindset just a little bit and doing something like this? And this sounds to me like something that would allow content creators to do that. So let me ask the reality of a scenario. If someone really wants to do this, and they're like, listen, I'm just going to really put everything I have into this, what do they need to start off with? And like, how much does this cost to get started? Because there's inevitably something that costs something like, what is the reality of someone starting into this? Reality of someone starting is zero. You don't need money to really start any of this. You just need to build the skills. And if you have the skill of being able to make good videos, understand the sourcing behind it, understanding how to edit those videos, you're going to get views and make money. I would say the number one reason why most people are not able to do this is because they're misguided, right? They don't know the right direction of what information they need to consume in order to actually implement it. Or they have the info and they're just literally not implementing it. Like maybe they don't have time. Maybe they're working eight hours a day. They get home. They have a family to take care of, right? Like, oh, I don't have time to make it or make these videos. So I would say it takes zero dollars to start. But if you have the skill set, it's very easy to scale. And we can get into the skills you need in a second. Let's do it. Let's get right into it. Why wait? Let's get right into it. This is a channel right now that's making around $4,000 to $5,000 a month. This is like the average salary for an American right now. That's amazing. So this channel is completely automated, but it wasn't automated when we started it, right? Originally, when this channel was really starting to scale, it was really just going on YouTube, finding compilations of like, for example, this channel is an anime channel, right? It's a One Piece channel, One Piece, Luffy, all of that. So basically, we went in. We found compilations of like, you know, funniest One Piece compilations. We take individual clips from those and add captions to it, and that's it. That's all that's in this video, right? And maybe we'll add some commentary here and there for these videos. And we just started uploading it. And you can see here, the growth was a little bit slow in the beginning. And we've been running this channel for a little while now, you know? We started this channel up. I mean, like, it started off pretty slow. And you can see every couple of months, we have a bigger spike. And I would say, because a lot of people wonder about this, like, how much time does it take to do this? Right? Because like, if I'm working eight hours a day, it's 40 hours a week. You know, I'm doing a couple things extra. Maybe it's another couple hours. How much time do you have? So I always do this. I always usually break down what I'm doing throughout the day. So I break down how much I'm sleeping, how much I'm working, and I try to find time in between. I think this takes around an hour and a half to two hours a day max to be able to do this. And what's great about this business model is it's free to start because, you know, you source videos for free. You edit for free on CapCut or something like that. And then you just upload the video, right? After you get monetized, let's say you make, like, even $1,000, right? You invest back into editors. You just saved yourself time, right? You saved yourself time. Now you have the time to make a second channel, a third. And eventually, you start making enough money to, you know, quit your job. And I'll tell you right now, the cost for this channel is around $1,250 a month right now. So, like, this is just $3,000. It's just all monthly profit, yeah. Right, $3,000 pure profit. Yeah. And, you know, I think a lot of people, if they just had the information, they'd be able to do it, you know? And, like, the main stuff you need to understand is, like, well, what niche do you pick, right? So, again, look at what niches are doing well on YouTube. The best way, best teacher guys, again, is the market. Go on YouTube and start scrolling. You see a video has 100 million views. Click on their channel. See what they're uploading, right? If they're making videos that's getting, you know, 20, 30, 100 million, and then 2 million back to 20 million, like, that's a guy to look at. Right? So, look at this stuff. Try to, like, break it down. Like, okay, what are they doing? Okay, they're doing ranking videos. Oh, they're doing ranking videos of creative sports moments in the World Cup this year. That's why they're exploiting so much right now. All right, let me look at this stuff. Where are they sourcing it? You look up a little World Cup compilation. You find a World Cup compilation. And, like, okay, what are they doing here? They're adding captions, and they're just putting numbers next to it and sorting them. Huh, that's not that bad. I can do that. Right? You download it. You know, download the video on, like, Cobalt.tools or YouTube video download or something. Chop it up in CapCut and upload it. And then, bang, you just made your first video. So what are the times where you get hit by, like, copyright claims or anything? Because, like, obviously some of this stuff is copyrighted content, you know, especially, like, One Piece and stuff. How do you navigate that? So I personally work with a YouTube rep now. So, like, my YouTube rep is able to kind of manage a lot of the stuff for me. And he manages every single channel I work with for my students and stuff as well. Like, they manage everything. But before, when I didn't have a YouTube rep, it was just about making it reformative. Right? So the best way to make reformative content on YouTube, because it's such an ambiguous word. Like, what do you mean reformative? Right? Right now, YouTube is moving in the direction toward pillars of people. Right? They want personality. Right? So if they think of One Piece on YouTube, I want to think of, like, you know, Joe Schmo's One Piece channel. Right? Like, I want to think of this guy. So when you think of One Piece on YouTube, you go to this person. So right now, YouTube is moving toward personality. So the best way to be reformative is add some type of commentary. And you can do AI commentary. But it has to be 11 Labs version 3 with emotion inflections. If you do the stale voice, like Adam, it's version 2, 11 Labs. It's not going to do well. If you don't know what 11 Labs is, it's an AI voiceover, basically. You type words in it, and it'll spit out, basically, like an AI version of... It sounds pretty human. But you need to use version 3 because of emotions. Right? And I want to get into this a little bit as well. It's like, on YouTube Shorts, emotions is basically the key for scaling. If you understand how to use emotions to your advantage, you can basically master retention. Because it's not like long form where it's like click-through rate and then average view duration retention. That's like the main metrics you need. But for Shorts, it's completely different. You need to focus on swipe ratio, link to video, retention, look at your new viewer, casual viewer ratios, all of these things. And I can show you some analytics in a second, and we can break it down. That's one of the things. It's like a lot of people don't understand how important the swipe way versus swipe stay analytic is. I would love to pull one of those up so we can see. And again, if you're listening to the Audio Online Podcast, you probably want to jump over to the YouTube channel to watch this. Because we're looking at actual information that would be helpful. Let's take a look. The first thing you guys need to understand is typically when you're looking for a swipe ratio, you need to be aiming for above 80%. But this is only given on the niche you're in. For example, let's say you're in ranking the best animal videos. Let's say you have a ranking channel. Typically, you actually only need around a 76% swipe ratio. And the reason why is because this thing called TAM. So TAM stands for Total Adjustable Market. And there are different sizes for markets for different YouTube niches. For example, the World Cup right now, it's going on right now. It is a very viral topic. The TAM is pretty much the entire world, right? It's like a billion, 2 billion, 3 billion people are just super interested in this, right? But if we were like making, I don't know, knitting socks for Christmas, the TAM for that's probably like 30,000 in December. You know what I mean? Like the TAM for that's very small. So you need to understand the Total Adjustable Market for whatever niche you're in. If the TAM is really big, the swipe ratio does not need to be very high, right? Because YouTube's serving it to so many people. I don't know if you heard this recently, but Travis, YouTube basically beat Netflix recently on viewership of TV. Right? So actually, I'm going to show you this crazy stat over here. If you look at our audience for this channel, this is a short-form channel. Look at our TV audience. That's crazy. 40%. That's insane. It's the number one device type on a shorts-only channel. Is that a shorts-only channel or it's both? This is short and long, but we haven't uploaded a long-form video in three months on this channel. Wow. That's insane. I have heard about this. Actually, it's funny because we talked about this in a previous episode, and I was talking with my co-host at the time, and we were saying shorts on TV doesn't make sense. She was like, I watch all my shorts on TV. I'm like, really? You really do that? Yeah. That's kind of strange, but okay. There it is. It's pretty alien to a lot of people because they're like, who watches shorts on TV? But there's a lot. And there's this new stat that YouTube released recently. Actually, I saw a VitaQ tweet about it. It was this thing called Views Per Viewer. And basically, YouTube basically has this formula behind each device type. For example, a computer is usually the Views Per Viewer, stands for VPV, is one. So if a TV gets one view, YouTube may count as three viewers depending on the device type. Because what YouTube does is they look at the IPs of whoever's in the household. They look at the Google account of whoever's watching. And then they look at the time of whoever else is online. And it's a little complicated for the formula, but basically, if you're getting more TV audiences, you get more views per viewer watching your video, which increases RPM. It increases the amount of reach you're getting. It increases how much money you make. So going back to those analytics about what you actually need to hit to start scaling, I'd say aim for around 80% swipe ratio. And the best way to do it, if you're running any channel, is typically it's visual plus audio pairing. So if you have something that's visually very appealing and matches up with what you're saying, and then the inflection control of whatever you're saying is matching the video, then it's going to do very well. So let me give you an example, right? Let's say we were doing ranking the best funny cat moments, right? If I said, these are the best ranking the funniest cat moments, or I said, these are the best ranking the funniest cat moments. It's like, the second one's just going to get people engaged, you know? Like, if I was talking to you this entire time, like, all right, so you need to get your swipe ratio to 80%. It's like, you're already bored, right? You need to do inflection control, and typically you need to go high, low, high. So, like, go high, then go low, then go back up high. And this goes into a kind of emotional pairing. Actually, can I pull up my Myra board? Can I break down some stuff for you? Sure, yeah. All right, let me pull it up real quick, because it's really easy for me to explain this if I'm, like, drawing it on my Myra board at the same time. Sure, yeah. For all you audio listeners, really hop onto the YouTube videos so you guys can see this. Okay, so you guys know retention, right? Usually you have, like, a retention like this. It dips, and then it kind of flatlines out if you have a pretty good retention. Now, there's this thing on YouTube called emotional retention, right? And emotional retention is basically understanding how to use emotions to your advantage to increase it. So, let's say, again, I was doing ranking the best funniest cat moments, and I had, let's say, seven clips, right? In that ranking the funniest cat moments. In the seven clips, let's say I had three videos that were funny and four videos that were kind of more a shock factor. If I sorted these clips by, let's say, like, F for funny and then S for shock, and I go, like, F, S, F, S, F, F, right? So, funny, shock, funny, shock, funny, shock, funny, shock. What's going to happen here is the journey the viewer is going to go on through this one video, they're going to go through emotion A, and then emotion B, and emotion A. So, like, it's going to look like this on an emotional graph. And I'm a math guy, so this will make sense in a second. All right. Now, on our retention graph, what happens here is, like, it actually, every single time we change emotion, we just keep it pretty straight. Now, let's look at scenario B here, where we basically have the same emotions, but we do the first funny videos are four, and the last three videos are shock, right? So, if we have, like, funny, funny, funny for the first one videos, and then we had the last three is shock, what happens here is on an emotional graph, it'll basically look like this, where it goes like this. It's flat, and then we go to shock, and it's flat like this. And what happens here in this retention graph is every single time there's a funny video, and then another one after that, you just have dips every single time. And then you'll see here from funny to shock, it actually flat ones out. And then you have shock, shock, it dips more. So, what I'm trying to show you here is when you have emotions that are backed by another emotion, so let's say you have a video that goes from funny to sad to funny to happy, the emotional retention graph is straighter, which makes the actual retention graph straighter. If you just keep doing funny videos, like, for example, when I say ranking the best funniest cat moments, your idea may be to think, like, okay, I'm going to find only funny cat videos. But if the viewer is only feeling these emotions, the retention is going to dip because they get bored of it, you know what I mean? And that's, like, one example of just understanding retention for shorts. That's crazy. I mean, as someone who has spent years coaching long-form creators on retention hacks, because it's one of my favorite things to talk about, never heard it, like, put in that way before. It's very interesting to think of it as the emotional journey, which makes sense because, you know, for better or worse, our attention spans are so much more smaller than they used to be. So you almost need that shock factor to wake you back up to know, like, well, what's going on? Oh, wait. Oh, I just – it's a different type of pattern interrupt in a weird way, like an emotional pattern interrupt. Exactly. And, you know, going back to this channel here, you know, this was one of my students, Marcus. He joined, like, around six weeks ago. You can pretty much see how flat this was before. And I basically had this one call with him, and it was just exactly what I just told you. It was like, listen, like, your videos, you're kind of doing, like, a biking commentary, but it's kind of just pretty flat in emotion. If you include a person B of, like, you're doing biking commentary, but this cop is chasing him behind him, right, the emotion goes up, and then the cop runs away. And then the cop pulled on the other corner. It's like we went through three different emotions of, like, anxiety, relief, shock, back to anxiety, curiosity, what's going to happen. And you can see – I mean, it's instant reflection on your videos, right? Like, this isn't a gradual thing where if you change this, you'll start slowly seeing results. Like, you change this, and you'll go from, like, 7 million to 70 million 48-hour mark. Yeah, and what's also interesting about this particular graph is it says, like, he's gotten 77,000 subscribers the last 90 days, but he only has 79,000 subscribers, which means almost all of his subscribers have come in the last, like, month and a half, basically, just by looking at this, which is crazy. Yeah, exactly, yeah. But what is a realistic – so we see all these really amazing, like, transformative stories, and it's definitely inspiring, and I love that you're sharing all this. But what's, like, the reality of someone who just comes in? Like, what is a more realistic kind of performance you might see from someone who maybe doesn't get it? Like, maybe they understand what you're saying, and they try to do it, but maybe their execution is an A or S tier. So they're just throwing out stuff that is better than what they had been doing, but it's, you know, it's not all the way at the top. So is this person you're talking about, is this someone who's already doing YouTube a little bit? Yeah, they maybe do a little bit of YouTube, and, you know, they hear this podcast. They're like, I want to try this. And maybe they've been doing YouTube for a couple years, so they're decent, but they're not, like, A-tier storytellers. They're just trying to figure this out. What is a realistic kind of expectation for this? Okay, so I may – this may be a little bit of pushback here, but your realistic expectation is the amount of work you put into it, right? For example, when I was studying YouTube and I was really trying to understand this, like, I would listen to these podcasts, and I would keep them on loop while I'm sleeping. Like, I would be consuming content in every type of way. Realistically, you can get to probably $4,000 to $6,000 per month in your first month of scaling, you know, on YouTube shorts if you have the exact path in order to do that, right? That's, like, a number I would say. But, again, expectations, you know, let's say I said this $4,000 limit, right? You know, like, you could also get to, like, you know, $30,000 if you really know what you're doing. But let's say you're a beginner. Let's say you just started YouTube. You're doing some long-form content. You're doing some short-form content. You're trying to make some videos. Maybe you have a little personal brand. You're reacting to some stuff, right? If you follow the proven formats of other creators, you can easily get to $4,000 per month. For example, like this channel right here. This is a channel that's making $4,000 per month exactly right now, right? We upload a short. It can be a short every other day. And it's just quality, right? This is a sports niche, right? So we're basically just uploading videos on commentary over American football. That's it, right? And we're basically just explaining, like, you won't believe what happened when this linebacker did this, right? And he just blows through everyone, and then he just gets a touchdown. And we just find clips like that. We upload it. It can easily get to $4,000 per month. But, again, you need to know the knowledge. The knowledge is, like, the most important thing. Yeah, I think that that's the part that – and, you know, I love that you're willing to share this. And maybe that's the next question. What do you get out of sharing all this stuff? It almost is like – it's almost like, well, why are you giving away the secret sauce? Like, what's the point there? I'll tell you this, right? Like, last month, I made around $260,000 in total, right? I made around $120,000 from YouTube. I have this other company that I'm running right now that I'm not going to share on this podcast. And then I also have my program as well, right? And right now, my long-term goal isn't even revenue because I'm at – after $70,000,000 revenue, I was pretty much set for, like, any type of responsibility as anything I would need. So right now, my goal is actually getting $1 trillion lifetime views. So my strategy is basically any channel that I work with or contribute to, I add it to my lifetime goal, right? So, like, right now, I'm at 31 billion views across the students since I started working with my program. I've added, like, an extra 15 billion views to my thing, right? And, like, I want to get to $1 trillion. So I'm just adding people to my portfolio and I'm teaching people. And also, there's a lot of course sellers all over. I'm not going to attack anyone or say any names. But there's lots of course sellers that sell stuff. And, like, I believe information should be given for free, which is why I don't actually sell a course, right? I don't sell any course or anything like that. Like, every video you see on, like, any channel or anything that I upload, it's just – it's just, like, everything I know. You know, I'm not, like, gatekeeping anything. The thing is I can't really teach individual implementation. For example, like, you know, if you're a dad and you have two kids and you have a wife, right? Like, let's see you're working nine hours a day or something, like, I can't break that down, your specific scenario and what you need to do to get out of there in a video, which is why I have the program. Because, you know, I guess, like, I sell, like, my time technically, right? But there's no course. All this information, like, there's no gatekeeping here. There's not anything you're missing from this. Like, everything I've told you is already everything you can implement and start making money. Yeah. And that's something that people who have been around for a long time, Daryl Eves has done for many years, where he's given away the same things. But also he's, like, massive in the greater space of, like, education. But he said a lot of the same things that he does in his more expensive courses. So it's not completely out of the realm of possibility to see that, oh, yeah, you know, we're just – and I think a lot of people will pay to have that personalization. It's like you can tell someone everything, and that could be exactly what you're going to tell them in person. But sometimes it's worth paying to get that one-on-one, which we also have here. But I do have one-on-one coaching. And I get that. And that's also why when we talk about content creation, that sometimes if you're looking to monetize in other ways besides AdSense, doing things like private courses or something, if you're in a subject matter expert, people will actually pay for that sort of thing. So in your particular instance, people are paying for essentially the time you've put in for your expertise and kind of more of the blueprint of exactly, like, what you do and how you do it. Yeah. And it's, like, more implementation. If I'm going to be real rude with you, Travis, my first video on, like, my personal Devin Sinath brand was actually a video, like, of cry for help. It was, like, a loneliness call because, like, I actually didn't have any friends when I was, like, starting my businesses and stuff. So, like, it was at a place of loneliness. And I was, like, making these videos just hoping, like, I hope someone who's also making $30,000 per month on YouTube sees this and reaches out to me. And it worked, but it didn't work that well. And then people started basically asking me, like, hey, like, can you teach me? And I actually used to teach people for free, you know, because, like, oh, yeah, sure. I got a lot of time. And then it became too much, which is why I started the program as well. But, I mean, like, I got to meet some amazing people. Like, you know that Rith channel I just showed you and the guy I showed in the beginning? Like, he went from $15,000. Actually, let me share my screen. He went from $15,000 to $103,000 in a single month. Like, you can see here, like, the revenue growth was, like, $15,000, $20,000. And then we all got him a Spotify deal. So, it was, like, $103,000. And I got to meet him up with him yesterday in Florida. I flew out. I got to meet him up. We spent the day together. And being able to do that with people and just being around people is just I value that so much, you know? It's very fulfilling to me to be around people like this. Even being on a pod with you, man, and being able to talk to you. Like, I used to watch VidIQ when I was a kid. Like, I would watch these videos. I would try to learn everything. And, you know, those connections are just so important to me. Like, I can't express enough how much I value in my heart. Like, it really means a lot to me. What's weird about this is when I've talked to other entrepreneurs in your age group that are, like, crushing it on YouTube, especially from a financial perspective, I do get that feeling from some of them that shocks me. Like, I'll go into it thinking, I don't really know what to expect from this interview. We're going to find out and dig in. And that some of them really feel like you do. Like, they really just want to give back. Is that something from your upbringing or just because you made it? You're like, oh, it would be cool if other people were doing that sort of thing, too. Yeah. I love that. So I used to watch a lot of Alex Trimosey. He's, like, one of my heroes. So is Mr. Beast as well. And, like, I just see them always giving everything. And going a little bit deeper with my personal stuff, my mother, you know, she's been someone who gives so much. She actually runs a nonprofit homeless shelter in my local area, you know? I used to work there. I used to work there in the homeless shelter. You know, I'd see these people in these situations. Actually, back then, I used to try to teach them how to do YouTube, too. I was trying to teach them, but they didn't really catch on to it. It's a little bit harder for them. But, you know, like, I've grown up in a family that, like, always just gives and gives and gives. Like, my mom, she's great. I love her so much. And she gives so much. I've been around places where, like, I've seen poverty and stuff like that. I grew up in a very nice house, you know? Like, I live in a nice apartment now. I have a nice car and everything. But, like, I've seen what those people have gone through. I won't go as far to say, like, I do this just for those people, right? Because I get some joy out of it, too, helping these people out as well. You know, it's fun for me. But, you know, a part of the upbringing, I definitely think my mom definitely contributed to that. And watching Mr. Beast when I was younger as well. What do you think your five-year goal is, then? Like, what's the next thing for you personally? My goal in the next year is to get to $1 million a month because I'm at around $260 right now. And then my five-year goal, I'm not sure, but I'm going to be getting to $10 million in revenue. It's a whole process I have. I'm going to be at $10 million revenue in the next three years or so per month. But that's going to be through other businesses I'm starting. You know, I'm expanding above YouTube. What's great about shorts is it takes no money to start. You make a lot of money from it. And then you can invest in other things, you know? Like, you know, houses and stuff like that as well. Like, you know that guy, again, Rith, I told you about. But that first $103,000 payout he got, he actually just bought a supercar. Same day. Same day he got the payout. It was really funny. Let me show you this. Yeah. Same day he got the payout, he bought this Z06 Z8. Oh, my God. Same day. And then he posted this. He was like, best scam ever. Thanks so much, Kevin. And then he was like, he posted it. It was really funny. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. I mean, I think I'm at a point in my life where I'm not buying a sports car. But I get it. No, I get it. Like, YOLO. I totally understand. Right. And what do you think are the things that, you know, kind of smaller content creators or even beginning content creators right now are missing out on? Obviously, we've talked about some of the things that we're missing out. But, like, what are the things they're doing wrong right now that they're, if they just change a couple of things, they could be changing their life? First thing is implementation, right? Don't just watch this podcast of this information that we just shared. And then go watch another podcast. Like, stop right here. Take the info. And go figure out how you can implement it. Action is everything. Right? Like, you can know all the knowledge. Because, like, sometimes I have people in my program who join. And I'm like, why are you here? You know everything. You just do it. You know? So, like, action is so important. Also, finding your why. There's this quote. I'm not sure who it's from. But it's like, a man with a very strong why can overcome any how. Right? So, if you have a strong why you're doing this. For example, like, if you're in a position where you don't want to be in financially. You want time, location, you know, financial freedom. Figure out why that is. Dig deeper. Right? Like, if something happened when you're younger. Why do you need this? Right? And if you figure that out. Getting to the how becomes a piece of cake. Right? And then action becomes a lot easier. Yeah. I think that's, like, that's the main thing I would say. I love that. I think, for me, the takeaway is that it is still possible to change your life with something as, quote, easy as shorts. Now, of course, there is more to it. You do have to put the work in. But it's doable. So, if you're listening to the audio-only podcast, there will be links in the show notes. And in the YouTube video, we're going to link out to Devin's channel and some other stuff that he has going on. I'd be interested to see if any of y'all take advantage. I think I'm going to talk to Devin about a little secret project we might do. We'll see where that goes. I've been really curious as to what y'all think it is. So, tell me in the comments, what do you think Travis and Devin are up to after the podcast? It's going to be crazy, guys. Leave us a comment below. And maybe we'll have a follow-up in a couple months of whatever that is. And if you're new here, feel free to hit that subscribe button. And there will be a link right here for another episode of someone I just talked to who's absolutely amazing. See y'all in the next one.
