---
title: "1. Model Evaluation and Bayes Decisions I"
source: local
filename: 1. Model Evaluation and Bayes Decisions I.mp4
duration: 02:43:22
date_created: 
author: ""
tags: []
---

# 1. Model Evaluation and Bayes Decisions I

Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public Public

Thank you. Okay, good afternoon.

Okay, so today we will start discussing how to evaluate models and we will see how to take those that are called bias optimal decisions. We already started introducing them last week when we discussed generative Gaussian models. And we said to make our decision, we would take the class that has highest posterior probability. We saw in the Gaussian model that to compute class posterior probability, we would compute the class conditional likelihood times the prior probability divided by the marginal. We would repeat that for all the classes, and we would take the maximum one. Today, we will discuss in which sense this is optimum and how to change this if we want to account for the fact that mistakes happen

and not all mistakes are the same. But before we get there, Are there questions on the generative model we saw last week on the Gaussian model? Is it clear? Did you manage to understand how it works?

Okay.

Now, as we said, we have essentially two goals that we need to solve. The first, how we perform decisions. So we said, for the moment, let's just assume that it makes sense to take the maximum of the class posterior probability for the class label. And then we need to evaluate the performance.

Now, for the performance in the laboratory up to now, we have used the accuracy. which counts the different types of errors, the different errors, the different amounts of errors that we have. The first thing that we can observe about these two choices is that they treat all samples in the same way, in the sense that they treat the different kind of errors in the same way. When we measure accuracy, it's evident. If I have a mistake, so for example, let's imagine this is a dataset that I want to classify and I want to compute the accuracy for a linear model that separates the classes like this. We count the number of errors, and each sample counts the same, whether it comes from the red or from the blue class.

So all errors are treated in the same way. But probably this is not the best thing in many scenarios. For example, imagine you are doing a system that needs to decide whether, needs to classify some biological information as to decide whether you are ill or not and you should go treatment or not. then based on that outcome, I will decide whether to treat the patient or not. Now, we will have two kinds of mistakes. I have a mistake when I treat somebody who is not ill, and I have a mistake when I don't treat somebody who is ill. But the outcome may be wildly different depending on the illness and on the treatment. If the illness is not serious and the treatment is strong, then probably if I treat somebody who is not ill, I will do something bad.

For example, if the treatment is surgery, but you are not ill, having a surgery that is not necessary is probably not a good thing. However, in some cases, the illness may be severe. So if the illness, when it's not treated, will bring you to death, then probably if you are unsure, it's better if you get treated even when you are not ill. In that case, not treating a healthy patient is probably less damaging than not treating a ill patient. So, probably I don't want to weigh the two mistakes in the same way. Of course, how much I weigh one case or the other depends on the specific case. so it will not be said you need somebody who decides which cost to give to the different errors in any case in both scenarios

we have issues in how we decide which is the optimal action to take so let's say for example that the probability that you are ill is 60% and that you are not ill is 40. Or let's do it the opposite. Let's do ill 40, not ill 60. Up to now, we would say, okay, let's assume the person is not ill. But let's now say that if I have a patient who is ill and I don't treat it, he will die. If I treat a patient that is not ill, It's just a matter of paying one pill that costs one euro, and it has no adverse effects. What would you choose to do in this case?

Would you give him the pill, or would you let him die with a probability that he's just 40% because there is a higher chance that he's not ill?

He would probably give the pill anyway. So, we see that choosing just based on probability alone is probably not the best thing. Accuracy, when we evaluate a system, has the same issue. When we evaluate systems, accuracy counts all errors in the same way. So, we have up to now evaluated through accuracy. Accuracy has the same issue. It doesn't weigh differently. The fact that different errors may have a different weight. If you compute with accuracy, if you have one ill patient that is labeled as healthy, you will count one error. If you have an healthy patient that is labeled as ill, you will also count one. So in case you have one error of this kind, you will have one error according to accuracy,

but the same for the other scenario. So, if you have an accuracy of 10%, you don't know whether the 10% is 10 out of 100 people were ill and were labeled as healthy, or vice versa, or a mix of the two. But the cost, the overall cost that you have, may be drastically different. And finally, a second, three other issues that we have already encountered in classification that affect all, well, another issue that we have already encountered in classification that will also affect the way we measure with accuracy. We said in classification up to now we didn't count for the different cost of errors. should and with accuracy we also don't count for different cost of errors and we should then another thing that we said influences our classification is

what for a generative model we have said that to compute class posterior probabilities we are combining essentially two terms which are the terms that we combine when we compute class posterior probabilities for a alternative model, the class condition, and the prior. This describes the distribution inside each class. And the prior describes what? Well, ideally, it describes prior knowledge, which may go beyond the expected frequency that we have for the two classes. But we say, let's just keep it simple, and let's think about it as, we can think about it as the probability with which we will observe a sample of class C in our test set. Why we said this is application dependent, and why we said we want to keep this separated from modeling of the class condition,

why we said typically this we don't want to learn from our training set but we will plug information that is application dependent what is the main one of the reasons

so why for the prior we don't use the empirical prior of the training set for class C.

It can change and it reflects what? This reflects the empirical prior or reflects what? If we follow a frequentist approach, it's the frequency of each class in the training set, which may differ from the expected, from what is the frequency that we expect to have in the application data. We said that ideally, if our training set was sampled in the same way as the application data, then we could use the training prior. The empirical prior also at the application level, but typically we said that this has two issues. One, first of all, we assume that if we have enough data, this term will not change. So the only thing that changes is the prior. And if the prior needs to simulate the application data,

if my application is very unbalanced, I will need to create very unbalanced data training sets, which is typically something that we don't want. Why? Because we want the minimum amount of samples. If we can afford to have just the minimum amount of samples necessary to estimate this term, then why we should add order of magnitudes more samples just to get an estimate of the prior if we are able to measure the prior that we are interested in in some other way, for example, through some external knowledge or just using a different data set that we don't use to estimate this class conditional but just the prior that we expect to have in our dataset, in our application. If we can keep the two separate, we can do what?

We can simulate scenarios where the class distribution remains the same, but the fraction of samples of each class changes in the application. The application prior allows me to simulate scenarios where the class, the frequency of the two classes, of the k classes for a multi-class scenario, changes. So I may have the same number of samples for the two classes, sorry, the same distribution inside of each class, but then the prior allows me to simulate a scenario where for one of the classes I expect to have many more samples. Large prior for the red class. If I have a large prior for the blue class, I expect the similar distribution of the samples but to have many more samples from the red class.

Now, how is this reflected in accuracy? Well, the same problem appears in accuracy, in the sense that the accuracy as we defined up to now doesn't separate the contribution of these two different terms. in the classification with generative models, we are able to separate the contribution of what happens inside a class and the relative proportions of classes, accuracy does not. Accuracy collects errors from all the classes. And essentially, we will see it depends on the ratio of classes that, of the ratio of samples that we have for each class. Why? Well, imagine you have, again, Let's go back to our male-female example that we use for the generative classifier. Imagine that you have built your classifier for male and female.

This is the male-hate distribution. This is the female-hate distribution. You have built your classifier. The classifier works by building a generative model and then selecting the largest. class posterior. We have seen that for the binary this corresponds to a likelihood ratio. If you assume that the variance of the two classes are the same this is a linear model which means that our classifier will put some threshold that depends on the mean of the classes and on the variance of the classes and the Gaussian classifier will separate these two classes. Let's make the example because maybe it's easier to understand. Let's imagine that we don't have just the height. Now we have height and weight.

So we have female class and male class.

Training set, we estimate the classifier and let's say the classifier divides the samples in this way. Now we compute accuracy. Let's compute accuracy we said on a held out dataset. datasets and now dataset where we assume that these two classes have the same distribution now we have said that the application prior changes the threshold so imagine that the classifier has been but let's let's forget about the class how the classifier was built let's imagine the classifier is built in such a way that it tends to make more errors for the female class than it does for the male class we don't know why the classifier here is given we are just evaluating the goodness of this classifier we have seen that for example if we have a generative model trained

to discriminate the classes and we put a higher prior for the blue class the decision rule will will be of this kind. We will make fewer errors for the blue class and larger amount of errors for the red class. Now imagine that we evaluate this model with accuracy

with a test set that contains maybe this amount of samples for the red class and this amount of samples for the blue class. For the blue class, let's make it a little, It makes fewer errors for the blue. So let's say that it makes one error for the blue class and three errors for the red.

Accuracy is forever. Let's say these are 10 points and 10 points. Of course, these are few points, but number of errors, four divided by 20. Imagine that I repeat the same thing with 1000 points and 1000 points. And imagine that I'm lucky, I get exactly 100, the number of errors for each class. So I get 30 errors for the red, 10 for the blue, divided 2,000. This is my accuracy. Now we have a reasonable amount of errors per class, and that's okay. Now imagine that I do this. Now I have 10,000, the female, and just 1,000, the males. How many errors would I have if the distribution of the samples of each class remains the same? How many errors I would expect? For the red class, with 1,000, I had 30 errors.

If the distribution of the samples remains pretty much the same with 10,000, how many would I expect? Around 300. Let's say 300. For the male class, I will still get the same 10. Now, I have this value. The accuracy has changed. While if I had increased also the male class, the accuracy would have remained the same, pretty much. So, you see that the accuracy depends on the proportion of the data. Of which proportion? On that of the set that I'm using to evaluate. So if I want to evaluate a situation where the female class is 100 times the male class, if I want to use accuracy, I need to have a dataset where I have 1,000 females per male. Same issue that we had with training. If I want accuracy to be meaningful, the dataset needs to reflect the prior probabilities of the application.

Remember, the dataset I'm evaluating on is a dataset that is labeled but behaves as if it was application data. So I'm trying my model on this data and measuring how it does the classification to measure how many errors I will have for this. If I want to use this as an estimate on the number of errors that I will have in my real application, this dataset should be similar to the application data. In particular, if I measure with accuracy, it should reflect not just the distribution of the samples of each class, but also the distribution of the samples of one class relative to the other. So the application prior should be the same as the evaluation set for empirical prior for accuracy to be meaningful.

Again, this is something that we probably don't want. if I have a scenario where probability of female is 0.999 and probability of male is 0.001 for reasons that come from other considerations that I may have on my problem, then if I want to see how good my model is on that thing, I don't want, and I want a reasonable number of errors per class because otherwise I don't get a good estimate of the error rates, If I decided 1,000 males are enough, I would need to collect 999,000 female samples just for accuracy to be meaningful. But that, again, is something that I probably don't want. I can imagine that error rates per class remain constant if I increase the number of samples after a given number, of course.

The same as in the training set. Once I have enough samples, even if I multiply them by 10, I don't get a better estimate of the distribution of the samples inside the class. Or if I do, the improvements are marginal. Here I can say the same. Once I have enough samples of the red class, having 10 times the amount will not give me a much more robust estimate of how many errors I make for samples of the red class. So in this case, I probably need, I would like to have a minimum number of samples per class as to evaluate these values and then combine these values in a way that takes into account not the empirical prior of the application set, but that of the evaluation set. And we will see that this is fairly easy

once we realize that accuracy can be decomposed now. Well, in the way we have said up to now, accuracy is number of correctly classified samples divide number of samples. Now, rather than using accuracy, let's work with the opposite amount. Error rate is the fraction of samples that are wrong. So, accuracy and error rate is the same information. The sum of the two is one. Is there any issue?

So, rather than counting how many times I'm correct, I count how many times I'm wrong. I guess that there is no big issue. Actually, everything I was saying before was already working with error rate, actually, rather than with accuracy as it's defined. Because the two things tell us the same thing. Now, let's consider accurate error rate, and let's see how it works. It's number of errors divided number of samples. Now, number of errors are number of errors. Let's consider a binary problem.

Number of errors for class one divided N, plus number of errors for class two divided the number of samples. But the number of errors for class one, so we can call this, if you want, a probability of error for for class one but let's let's write it in this way the number of errors for class one if i assume that i have a but let's write it in this way number of error let's write e1 the number of error for class one and e2 the number of errors for class two this is the error rate now let's multiply this by the number of samples of class two and divide it by the same amount what why do i do this because now i can write accuracy as number of errors of class one divided number of samples of class one times number of samples of class one let's call it n1

because it's class one divided the number of samples plus for the other class number of errors of class 2 divided the number of samples of class 2 times n2 divided by n. It's the same amount. In each case, I multiply and divide by the same term. But now, what do I have? That this represents what? E1 divided number of 1. It's the number of errors of class 1 divided the samples of class 1. So this is the frequency or rate of errors for class 1. Remember before we said if we have enough samples, we get a good estimate of the relative amount of errors of class 1. If we have enough samples, regardless of how many we have exactly, as long as we have enough, we can consider this term to be independent from the proportion of the samples

in the two classes. If we double the number of samples for class one and we don't do anything for class two, we expect this number to change very little, provided that the values are large enough that the estimate is good. And what is this second term? n1 divided by n.

Let's call this error rate for class one. What is n1 divided by n? It's the empirical prior of the evaluation set. Number of samples that I have from that class divided number of samples. So we have that the first term can be written as the error rate for class 1 times the empirical prior for class 1. And the same for the second term.

The empirical prior for class 2 times the error rate for class 2. As for the generative models, we can imagine that if we change application data but the samples have the same distribution and we have enough samples of each class, these two terms will not change. The terms that will change are these. So we can ideally simulate, if we decompose in this way, we can simulate changing just the ratio of the samples by doing what? Using a dataset to evaluate these two error rates. and then plugging the empirical prior, not the empirical prior of that set, but the application prior. And here I've got one minus, because it's a binary problem, so the application prior for class two is one minus the prior for class one.

So the idea here we will see is similar to what we did in the... in the... in the generative model with a couple, an estimate that depends on the cost, the error rate of each cost from the application prior. And the application prior that we use to measure the goodness of our model will typically not be that of the evaluation set. Sometimes it will. If the evaluation set is the same as the application prior, we can just use that. but eBay will want to replace it with the application prior. Finally, we see that this is not enough to account for the fact that errors may have a different cost. Remember, with this scenario, this is what? The first term is the number of errors of class 1 divided by the total number of samples

plus the number of errors of class 2 divided by the total number, but accounting for the application prior. So dependent, we said, on the application prior. If we want, we can see this as a probability of making an error of kind. We misclassify a sample of class one. And the second has the probability of making an error of the kind. We misclassify a sample of class two. So here it is. Oh, here it was one. which means that if we want to weight the fact that errors have different costs, we will not compute just the error, but use this as if they were probability to compute what is called unexpected cost. Expected cost will be a cost that considers the cost of making one error times the probability of making that kind of error.

This is the probability of making an error for a sample of class 1 for the given application prior with a cost C1 for that error plus the cost of the other error times the probability of having that other kind of errors. So we will see how to derive all this. This is the final step, well, almost the final step where we will converge. This will give us a measure that takes into account the application prior and the cost of errors. And then after we have done this, we will see how to introduce the cost also in our decisions, and we will see why they are called optimal bias decision and in which sense these are optimal. So this is the intuitive introduction to what we will do today for the evaluation. We see that for making our decisions, again, we use the cost to compute

not just the class posterior probability, but an expected cost of making a decision when the probabilities that we are using to take the expectations are those given by the classifier. But we will see that later. Okay, questions up to here. Is it clear why more or less the intuition behind the line in this kind of matrix? We replace the empirical prior with the application prior by scorporating the effects of the arrows due to the arrows that I make inside each class and the probability that I have a sample from that class. Yes?

N is the total number of samples.

Yeah. Here is the total number because here I'm going again to count the number of errors that I have for this data set. So, I simulate a data set with that empirical prior. I can take the fraction of errors multiplied by n and I get an equivalent number of errors. Now, this is just to show that since this can be interpreted as the first term is the number of errors divided the samples and the second as well. this can be interpreted also as the probability of having one error of that class and the other as the probability of having another unknown error for the other class.

What do you mean we can apply the cost? The cost is combined with these probabilities. If I have probability of A, probability of B, probability of C, and cost of A, cost of B, cost of C. What is the expected cost? The expected cost is this.

Now, if these are probability of error of class one, cost of one error of class one. Probability of errors for class two, cost of one error for class two. Probability of error for class three, cost of one error for class three. this is the expected cost that I have on that data set on data that follows that those probabilities for the probability of errors You can have, if you want, you have a cost zero for the probability of not having an error. We will put all the terms there, but the probability of having an error of class one, an error of class two, an error of class three, probability of everything being correct if you want. But we'll see how to derive this formally. but the idea here is these three objects have a cost so the cost that I will pay is the cost times

the probability of each thing happening of course I could also extend

these actually if I have more than there I was writing three cases with two classes will not prove it but two numbers are enough because you can always assume two costs are zero if there are more than two classes then the possible combination where the errors that they make is it was from class one but i sent class two it was class one but i assigned class three those are two different errors but here we are doing it intuitively we will do the full process formally during these three hours i just wanted to give an idea what is behind so that when we get to the formulas you have an idea of how we are going to reason. Other questions?

Okay. So now, as I said, let's try to see this in practice. I will skip some of the slides if they don't add much to what we said. Okay. Third thing that we didn't discuss that is also an issue when using accuracy by itself, we have discussed that we have the issue of simulating the application prior and not the data set prior that we're using. So the error should depend on what we expect in the application, which for many reasons we said may not be the same prior as the evaluation set prior, because it may be expected to build an evaluation set prior that mimics those performances, and there's enough samples of each class.

We have seen how to address this. We have seen how to address, at least intuitively, the cost of errors. The problem we have, that the cost is non-normalized. The accuracy itself is non-normalized. What does it mean? It means that if I tell you that something has 99% accuracy, is it good or is it bad?

Okay, now imagine that you have the male-female class where prior of male is 0.9999 and prior of female is 0.0001 and they have a classifier that doesn't do anything but just says male. and an application which has this prior. How many errors I have? Well, out of 10,000 people, I will have one male, one female that is incorrectly classified, and nine on average, of course. If I have enough, and these are the proportions, for each female that is wrong i will have 99999 male that are correct so imagine now you have a data set with 10 million people i will have 1000 errors for the female zero errors for the male what is my accuracy or well what is my error rate it's less than this so here I have a model that if

my model gives me this accuracy it makes more errors than a model that just says always male so probably it's not a good result if I had said always male I would do better than this the model that gave me 99.9% accuracy.

And this happens a lot. When classes are unbalanced, if you measure by accuracy and you have a model that relies just on prior information, so it just says this class has a highest prior probability, okay, I always label everything of this class, the more unbalanced is the application prior, the more the accuracy will be close to 100%, as number. So the accuracy, the pure number accuracy in these scenarios doesn't tell us much anymore. It's not telling us whether a classifier is good or not. 99.9, is it good or not? Well, it's ten times the number of errors of not using that at all and just relying on the fact that the maids are much more in this case. So if this was a cost, I would be paying

ten times the cost if I I didn't even use my classifier at all and just relied on the application prior as to make my decisions. Imagine deciding on just based on prior app, as we set up to now, this defines a probability for male and the probability for female. If these are the ratio, I would just say always male, if I don't have any other information to choose. This is a classifier that looks only to prior information. It discards our feature vector and looks only at the prior. A classifier that discards the information on the height, in this case, would perform better than our classifier that was given 99.9% accuracy. So, the accuracy, we can say, is not normalized. So by itself, we will see once we introduce the concept of costs, it will allow us to

measure a real cost when the costs are expressed in some value. But by itself does not tell us whether the classifier is being good or not. So we will introduce a way to normalize the cost in such a way that what we get is a relative accuracy compared to that of a classifier who relies only on prior information. In this case, we would have had that our classifier was worse because it would have a normalized cost of 10, which is 10 times that of a classifier that has accuracy of, that just looks on prior information. So, we use the equivalent of the accuracy that a classifier that looks only at prior information would have to normalize the measure of how good is our classifier.

Two things that we need to keep into mind when we measure accuracy on a data set, the evaluation metric can be interpreted in two ways. Measuring the performance on that data set exactly, so it measures the amount of errors that I make on that dataset, when I use the empirical prior of the dataset, and I count the number of errors on that dataset, or, as we've seen the second time, as a way to estimate the performance on application data. For this latter, we have said, this estimate should not depend typically on the dataset prior, but should take into account the application prior, which may be different.

So, remember that we are doing two things that are different when we measure the performance. If we measure the performance on a dataset just by measuring, we can interpret that as telling us, on this dataset, I would obtain this cost, period. In the second case, we are using that as an estimate of how good our model would be on other data that is different from this that i'm evaluating on these are actually two slightly different problems now to overcome accuracy we have already seen that we started dividing for a binary problem the contributions of the errors due to the two different classes is actually something that we will generalize to n classes. We will generalize it through something that you may probably have already seen,

and then we will see how to combine the terms that appear in this object. It is called the confusion matrix. The confusion matrix gives us, for a K-class problem, the full summary of the misclassifications that i have for my problem so essentially it's a matrix where i have my data set my data set will have samples of each class for each sample of that class let's say and one samples of that class i will have some that are predicted correctly as belonging of that to that class and some that are predicted as belonging to any of the others now here i don't have two classes anymore so i have um full set of possibilities for the arrows for each class i count how many times samples of that class were labeled as any of the others possibilities i have a matrix

on the columns here well sometimes you find it's reverse so you have labels on the rows and predictions and columns but that doesn't change here on the columns we have class labels on the rows we have predict the label for the samples and that we count how many times we observe that combination for example for the area status and you have three classes for the first class let's say it is well for our evaluation set it is 16 because we were using just one third of the classes let's say 13 were labeled as class one then we would have 13 here two were labeled as class two we'll have two and one was labeled at class three we will have one here the sum is the number of samples from class one the number of correct classified samples corresponds to the values

on the diagonal so if we sum the elements of the diagonal we get the number of correct classified samples accuracy is the sum of these values divided by the total number of samples the sum of all the values of the matrix is the total number of samples. The sum on column 1 is the number of samples of class 1, sum on column 2, and so on. For a binary problem, we specialize this by giving names to the different terms. There is nothing different. We just have fewer cases, so we give a name to them. and the name follows the fact that tb we call we represent binary problems a solution to a true false question or a hypothesis question when i have a true hypothesis and a false hypothesis like if you want the male female problem can be cast as is this guy female

question mark yes it's female no it's male and we have four possibilities now i don't like these names but that's what you find in the literature so we have to live with those we have that the second part of the name refers to the prediction and the first part of the name refers to whether that prediction is correct or not So, we have samples of the false class. If they are predicted as false, they are predicted negative, and they are correct. If they are predicted as true, they are predicted positive, and the prediction is wrong. For samples of the true class, similarly, if they are predicted as false, they are predicted negative, and the prediction is wrong. if they are predicted as true class,

they are predicted as positive, and the prediction is correct. So we have those four possibilities.

True negatives and true positives are correct predictions. False negatives and false positives are the wrong ones. Accuracy, we have said, is the sum of the elements on the diagonal divided by everything. So true negative plus true positive divided everything. Error rate is 1 minus. So false negative plus false positive divided by the sum of all the terms, all the errors.

Now, this is another example of what I was saying before that classifiers may not be normalized. Here, I will skip this as well. Now, for a binary case, we can start defining also the matrix that we were using before. Before, we have seen that we would like to express our error as the contribution of two terms, the empirical prior and the per-class error rate. To do this, we can start introducing what are called false negative and false positive error rates. Remember that false negatives are errors of what kind? That's true, labeled as false. So are errors of samples of the class true. True false positive are errors of the class false.

What is the relative number of errors of the... Let's see it here. What is the relative number of errors for the class false? That is, what is the rate of errors for the class false? How can we compute the rate of errors for the class false? What is the rate of errors for the class false? If I have these values, how many errors I have as percentage of errors for the class false? How many errors I have for the class false?

You have full possibility, you have Tn, Fn, Fp, and Tp. So, how many arrows I have for the class false?

What are the arrows for the class false?

Fp, yes. Now, relative to what? We want the relative number of errors for samples of the class false. So, we divide it by the number of elements of the class false. So, these are all elements that belong to class false. So we have these which were from class false and labeled as false, and these which were from class false but labeled as true. The sum of the two is the total number of elements of class false. So this we call false positive rate because it's the rate of errors inside the class false. and since errors of that kind are false positives, we call this false positive rate. Similarly, we can define the false negative rate. The false negative rate would correspond to what? The fraction of errors for the true class.

What are the errors for the true class?

True class. What are the errors?

False negative divided. the total number of samples of class true.

These we call false negative rate and false positive rate. And they are what? Well, they are nothing else than these two error rates that we defined at the beginning. The frequency of errors for class one, the frequency of error for class true. For class two, if we call the classes true and false, the false positive rate and false negative rate which are exactly those it's just a matter of renaming the classes which means what

that we have already found how to scorporate these two terms and we see that from the confusion matrix we can get all the information that we need to compute those two terms so these two terms can be computed from the confusion matrix then you may have seen other kind of values that are called recall a specificity which are true positive rate if you want a true negative rate these are just the same thing but rather than counting the errors rather than counting how many times i'm wrong i count how many times i'm correct for that class so they give me the same information again as accuracy in the error rate one tells me how many times i'm wrong the other how many times i'm correct all these have the same information so typically we will work with error

rate but if you get the true positive or true negative rate which are also called in this way in other contexts, they give us the same information. Once you know one, you know also the other. And all these, you can see, they depend only on the samples of one class. To compute each of these, we were doing what? We were summing over the samples of one class. So the proportion of points of the two classes, So, the relative proportion, which is reflected by the relative, the empirical prior of the classes, is not involved in the computations of these rates. So, again, if you assume we have enough samples, we can assume that regardless of the frequency of the different classes, these two terms would remain the same, see, and remain close when we use them as an estimate of the application error

using on the application data. using the unevaluation set. If the evaluation set is enough samples, then the relative proportions of the two classes will not affect the rate inside each class.

And, as we have seen, we can combine these two terms to obtain exactly the expression of the error rate that we have discussed before, The error rates for the binary problem can be expressed how? As, well, the error rate using the, the error rate defined as error rate. From now on, when I say error rate, I mean the number of errors as we defined before. So, the first thing, the first expression. Number of total errors, the one that we will not use. The error rate that employ the application prior, we see we give them a different name. But as we said before, we can also write the empirical prior of the training set of the . The empirical prior of the evaluation set can also be expressed in terms of the elements

of the confusion matrix. The empirical prior, remember, is the number of samples divided of that class divided the total number of samples. is the empirical prior here which as usual if we don't specify we assume it's the prior for the class true whenever we write a prior for a binary problem we assume it's the prior for class two true if we don't specify because the prior for class false will be one minus

how can i compute it it's the fraction of samples of class true divided the total number of samples total number of samples the sum of everything and samples of class true so also the empirical prior can be computed from the confusion matrix when we put everything together we get what exactly the coupling that we had before the error rate again this is the same expression that I was doing before just writing them explicitly in terms of false positive, false negative and so on we can express this as what the error rate is the sum of the two errors we split this fraction into two fractions we look at the first term we multiply and divide by the total number of samples what is this Tn plus Fp Tn plus Fp

is the number of samples of class F. You can call this TN plus FB is the number of samples of class false.

And this is the total number of samples. So we have the error rate, the false positive rate, times the prior for and f divided n is 1 minus the empirical prior, the prior for the class false. For the other, I will have the false negative rate times the empirical prior. Here I multiply by the number of samples of class true. So this is the rate of the errors for class true. And this is exactly the empirical prior, so the fraction of samples from class true. So we can see that what we have re-derived, what i derived at the beginning of the lecture the error rate can be expressed for this binary problem as a combination of false positive rate times probability that the sample is from class false plus false negative rate times probability that the sample is from class true

So, and we have said, I will skip this as well, because I already essentially I said this and the example is not particularly interesting for the moment. Maybe I will come back to the example later.

We see then, we'll now start from this and derive how, Well, we have seen that, sorry, let me just see one thing, that to derive the error rate, we will compute, we will simply replace the empirical prior with the application prior. And we said because that essentially reflects having a number of errors with a dataset, which has the same fraction of error rates per class, but different portion of the samples of each class. Now, let's show that this is true. So let's show that this leads to actually being a correct way to approximate the estimate of error rates that we would obtain if we had infinite number of samples.

So, again, let's start this again. We are redoing the same thing that I did intuitively at the beginning. do the same thing that I did intuitively at the beginning. We are just trying to make it a little further. But we are doing the same steps again. So we are redoing the steps that we had before. We are seeing that we can decompose the error rates. We have seen that the error rate already reflects a per class dependency, per class error rate multiplied by empirical prior. We are just trying to make it a little further, but we are doing the same steps again.

Now let's see how to make this extended to measure the accuracy of a classifier in a way that will allow us to also to be consistent with how we make decisions. So to do this, let's reset everything and let's see how this will also allow us to account correctly for the cost. For the cost, we said intuitively, for the binary problem, let's just multiply the errors of the two classes by the cost, but now let's show that this makes actually sense. Now, to make sense out of this, let's go back and start again thinking what we want to do. So why we are building our classifier. So again, what we said intuitively, I will now try to make it a bit more rigorous and consider also a slightly more general scenario.

We are building a classifier to do what? Well, in general, we have a task that we want to solve to decide some possible action. For example, you want to predict tomorrow's weather, not just because you want to know whether it's sunny or snowing, But because you want to know when you go out, should I take my umbrella because it will rain when I come back? Should I wear heavier clothes or not? Will it rain when I go to holiday? Should I book my holiday or not? You're not just choosing predicting weather because you like predicting weather. You're predicting weather because you use that to make some decisions. decision so to decide some action that you want to take to to that you will take among a possible

set of choices notice that the actions are not necessarily a set set that corresponds one to one to classification for example if my actions are take umbrella or not take umbrella my classifier may be a classifier that tells me will it be sunny, will it be rainy or will it be snowy so three class sun, rain, snow but only two actions and whether I should take the umbrella or not is what I need to decide upon the classifier will not tell me whether I should take my umbrella or not I will need to decide that based on the predictions for the different possible classes So, we have class actions that do not necessarily reflect the applications. What we will do is we will associate a cost to each action.

The cost is what? The cost is how much we pay for doing action A when the outcome of the outcome is. that I'm making my prediction for comes from class K. For example, whether I will have take or not take, the two actions. Then I will have sunny. Here the day is the sample. So the one that I want to classify is the day that I need to make my decision on. For that day, it can belong to the sunny, rainy, or snowy class. Then I can define costs based on all possibilities. If it's sunny and I take the umbrella, let's say if it's sunny and I don't take the umbrella, I have no cost. I have nothing to bring with me. I will not use my umbrella. I don't have any inconvenience, so everything goes well.

If it's sunny and I take the umbrella, let's say that this is a cost one, whatever it means. We will see the cost makes sense only, typically it makes sense in a relative sense. So the relative cost is what matters to take decisions. So the unit of measure doesn't really matter. Then if it's rainy and I take the umbrella, same inconvenience, I visit sunny, I need to bring the umbrella with me, I may lose it. The same cost that I have for taking the umbrella. If I don't take it, I have a larger cost. I will get wet, so I may get sick, and so on. Snowy, again, taking the umbrella is on intrinsic cost. I need to bring it with me. I may lose it, and so on. Not taking. When it's snowy, let's say it's a bit less.

If it's snowy, then I take the umbrella. Yes, I may get wet, but typically the effect is less severe than if it's raining, if it's pouring. So, typically it's a bit less severe. So, this defines for each possible outcome of the class the cost of choosing taking one action or another. Now as we said, for simplicity we will assume that the set of actions as we did up to now is simply taking the labels. But what we will decide to find now can be easily extended to any sort of action. So imagine that this, what I wanted to say is that the actions are not necessarily the classes. The actions may be things that are different from the set of classes. Again, to make things more manageable, we will show the examples by assuming that the

classes the actions are themselves the labels that we give to the classes but tipping IDs may not be the final goal in the case is not the final goal everything we say now for the actions will still be valid it's just a matter that we see some matters that here square would not be square anymore so if we have the actions corresponds to predicted labels then the matrix of cost will be squared because I have possible outcomes and possible actions are predict label one predict label one predict label K but apart from that nothing will change with the way we treat the actions now we have not yet discussed how to make actions but let's say that our classifier for the moment is not giving just class probabilities, but is able to tell us which action to take based on the sample that it's given.

So, for example, for the weather, I give the what I collect information on humidity, temperatures, historical series of temperature and whatever I can use for my model to predict today's weather. The model will not give me a probability for the moment, but will simply tell me, take the umbrella. Then we will see why the model should select take the umbrella rather than not take the umbrella. But for the moment, we are evaluating a model who makes decisions. So we assume that the model is directly giving us decisions. For example, if actions are labels, the model directly gives us, as output, the predicted label. Now, for the sample X, the classifier makes the decision that we should do action A.

This action A will have a cost, which is what? Well, the sample will also be associated to a class C. For example, tomorrow's weather, I get temperature 13 degrees, wind strong, humidity 100%, I'm making things up, the classifier will tell me tomorrow rain. This is the prediction, this is the action. But there is a label, maybe tomorrow it's sunny. So, the actual label of the sample would be sunny, and this is the feature vector. Sunny is the thing that I don't know, but when I evaluate the model, this is what I wanted to predict. When I evaluate the model, I know what should have been the correct class. So, the classifier tells me rain. So, for this sample, I have a cost that is cost of predicting rain when the sample is sun.

when the weather was sunny. My classifier predicted rain, so the action was rain, but I should have predicted sunny. Notice that if the actions are not the labels, here would be what? Maybe the classifier tells me to take the umbrella, so I will have the cost of taking umbrella when the class is sunny. So this action may not necessarily be a label as we said before. If we restrict ourselves to labels, then these will be the predicted labels by the classifier. And the cost of the decision for this sample is the cost of the prediction given by the classifier for the feature vector x, when the class of the sample is c. As I said, if we evaluate the classifier on a sample where this is the feature vector,

the class of the sample is sunny and the classifier tells me rain, the cost of this is the cost of predicting rain when the sample is from the sunny class. Is it clear?

Clear?

Okay, so now that is for one sample. Given one sample, we have a function. notice now that this is a function this is a function of x and c so this function c the cost here is a function of x and c if i provide a sample x and a class label c it will give me it will pass the sample through the classifier which will give me a predicted label this will will correspond to a combination in the cost matrix predicted A, actual class C, and I will have that number. This depends on X, because changing X, the classifier will change its prediction, so it's a function of X through the classifier and of the class sample. So if we have a sample with feature vector x from class C, this is the cost that I will pay for that sample when I use the classifier R.

We can then ask ourselves what would be the expected cost that we would pay if we use our classifier on some data. That is, we want to use our classifier to classify application data. We can ask ourselves what is the expected cost of using the classifier for our application data. Expected cost is what? It's the cost average overall possible samples that I may have in my dataset. That is, remember, the expectation is like taking an average where I average over samples, where application samples generated according to the application sample distribution.

Mathematically, it's taking the term that is inside here, the cost of classifier sample X, which belongs to class C, times the likelihood that I observe a sample of class C and feature vector X, or if you prefer,

time the class conditional times the prior integrated over X and summed over the class, expectation over the joint distribution of class labels and samples. But which distribution here? These are the distribution of the real data. We call this, you can imagine these are the real world distribution, if it made sense. So, if you assume that the samples, the application samples were really randomly generated, this is the distribution that is responsible for generating the application data. Unfortunately, we don't know the distribution. This is not the distribution according to our model. This is the distribution according to the evaluator, the guy who is computing this on the application data,

who has perfect knowledge of what's happening in our application. So if we want to compute how good our model would be on application data, we can compute the expected errors, but the problem is that this expected cost should be computed according to the distribution of the application data the real world distribution that is to evaluate exactly how a model would perform on application data we would have an oracle we would need an oracle evaluator who knows the distribution of the application data and then that that Oracle evaluator would be able to compute the expected cost. So the cost that we would pay, if you want, in a frequentist world, if we have an infinite number of samples generated according to the real world distribution for the samples,

that's the average cost that we would pay for classifying them with our classifier. So in the frequentist approach, this would correspond to the average cost that I would have for a single, for each sample, when I use the classifier to classify a number of samples that grows to infinite. And those samples are generated according to the application data distribution. So in the frequentist interpretation, these are an average cost for classifying essentially an infinite number of application data that are generated according to the application distribution. Problem is, we don't know this. Remember, everything we did last week was try to figure out a way to get an estimate of these terms. Our classifier was trying to figure out what is the class condition density for the samples.

We don't have this information. And this is not the class condition of our recognizer. Here, if we want the expected cost on the application data, this distribution should be that of the evaluator who knows everything about the data, or if you prefer, frequency interpretation, the average error, if I classify an infinite number of samples drawn from the application data. Questions up to here? If there are no questions, I think it's a good moment to make a break.

Okay, let's start again.

okay so before the break we said let's try to compute the average error for our application data we can express this as what we have a function that given a sample and this label will give us the cost of using our classifier to classify that label, we have said, for simplicity, we can assume that actions are in the set of labels. So, the actions are just labeling the tempos. This is not necessarily true. What we see now can be extended easily. it's just a matter of defining properly the matrix of costs and computing the expected cost correctly. Essentially, the expected cost is the average cost of using our recognizer to classify the sample and then computing the cost of using the action chosen by the classifier

given the actual label of the sample.

Average requires that we compute essentially expectation over the application data. The application data is described by this distribution here that represents the distribution, the joint distribution of samples and class labels according to, from the point of view of somebody who knows the area the world who knows everything about the world who knows the application data was perfect knowledge of the distribution of the application data this is an oracle evaluator problem we don't know the oracle we don't have the oracle evaluation knowledge well Let's see how we can address this issue. We will decouple the problem into two parts.

Well, the expectation, as we said, corresponds to what? We have one continuous and one discrete variable. For the discrete variable, we have a sum. For the continuous, we have an integral of the joint density times the term that we want to compute the expectation of. This is the definition of expectation.

As we did with the generic classifier, this joint density can be decomposed into two terms, a class conditional density and a prior probability. The prior probability is what? is the probability with which application samples are expected to come from one class rather than the other. So, it's in the frequentist interpretation the fraction of application points that will belong to class C.

Now, let's call this application prior. This is exactly the definition of application prior. The application prior is the probability with which application data will belong to that given class.

So, assume that we know the application prior probabilities. We have said that we will typically work with a specific application in mind, which means that we will evaluate our classifier assuming a specific prior in mind. Of course, if the application prior differs from the one that we use to compute our cost for, that will have an impact on our evaluation. So our evaluation will depend on the prior that we use. But let's imagine that somehow we are able to get the application prior. So, the prior with which the data will appear, belong to one class rather than the other. Then, the only term that we need to address is the class conditional distribution according to the evaluator. Now, this cost condition is much more difficult because it requires modeling knowing what is the distribution for each cost of the application data.

However, if we decouple in this way the joint density, the bias risk for an application prior pi C can be expressed in this way. If we compute the bias error with this application prior, it can be expressed as what? A sum of our classes. We bring the prior from inside to outside because the integral is over x. Pi doesn't depend on x, so we can bring it outside of the integral. Essentially, here you have pi c, the prior for class c, times the class condition. on this doesn't depend on x so i can bring it outside of the integral and this is what well this is exactly the definition of expectation expected cost for the samples of class c so it's the expected cost for samples of class c so if samples are generated according

to the distribution of samples of class C, and they are fed to our recognizer, this is the cost that we would pay on average for a sample of class C. It's the expectation of the cost of classifying a sample when it's belonging to class C, taken according to the distribution of the samples when the class is actually C itself. Here there are two Cs because these are two differences that are the same. One C is this one. This other C is the one of the expectation. It's this one. This second C is the one that I'm conditioning on the density, while this inner C is the one that I'm using to compute the cost. The cost is the cost of action X when the class is C, and the expectation is taken according to the distribution of x given c.

If you want, you can write it in this way, if you prefer, when the class is exactly small c. If you prefer, you can take this just notation, but you can take this small c here and write it here, c equals small c. So, it's conditioning the distribution.

So, we have exactly the composition that we had before. A term that depends only on the relative frequency of the samples of the classes, the application prior, and an expectation of the cost, so the average cost of the samples of each class. As I change the class, I will have what? I will consider samples distributed. Well, when the small class is one, for example, imagine there is problem. I will have Virginica, Versicolor, and the other one that I still don't remember, the class. So I will have samples are distributed according to the Virginica class for the application. So this is the distribution of the application samples. samples distributed according to the versicolor class, and the distribution of the samples when the class is the third one.

For each of these, I will have what? Expectation of X given C equal to Virginica of the cost of classifying a sample X with our recognizer when the class is Virginica, because it's Virginica set here. this is the average cost that I would pay for samples that come from the virginica class if a sample is from the virginica class it will be distributed according to this so its density will be this

that's why it's as we wrote usually let's see this is the density for a sample from the virginica class we use it that to multiply the cost of classifying that sample and the cost is the cost of the prediction given that the sample is from the virginica class integral this is the definition of expectation so the expected cost is the average cost that we would pay for samples of the virginica class you repeat it for all the classes you would have average cost for samples of virginica times probability of virginica plus average cost of samples of the versicolus time probability of versicolus and so on so we we have an expectation of the cost of each, of the average cost of each that we pay for the samples of each class,

averaged over the classes. So, we have two averages. The first is the average cost for samples of one class. Then, we repeat that computation for all the classes, taking the average over all classes. And in the second case, the average is taken according to the prior class probability. This is nothing else than rewriting the expected cost. I'm just rewriting the expected cost, highlighting the contribution of the expected cost of each class times the prior probability of each class. as we did at the beginning. We have a term that reflects the cost inside each class. If we consider only the samples of that class, what is the average cost that we pay for using our recognizer on that class times the prior probability of that class.

That's the contribution to the total cost due to the samples of that class. So, these are per class cost.

When we multiply by pi, we get the contribution to the total cost of the samples of that class. To the average total cost, of course. Problem, we still don't have this term. Remember, the whole machinery behind our generative model was to try to create a model exactly for those that term because we didn't know the term. But we have a classifier. We built a model, and to evaluate the model, we would need to know exactly the term that we had to model because we didn't know it. So the problem is we can't compute the bias error as we define. Now, so how do we solve the problem? that's where the evaluation set comes into play. Up to now, we just defined what we would ideally want to compute. The expected cost or the average cost on application data,

assuming that we were to classify an infinite number of samples, that would be the equivalent of the average cost for each sample. We can't measure that. However, we now assume that we have an evaluation set. The evaluation set, we will see, we will use it to get an estimate of this cost. In which way? Well, essentially, if we have samples drawn according to a data distribution X, so if we have a set of samples X1 through Xn that were all generated according to random variable X, so using a density model for that random variable described by some distribution that an expectation of a function of x that is nothing else than this can be approximated how well if i have the samples taken from that sample from the distribution of x i can get an

an approximate of the estimation by computing the function g over the set of samples. For example, if I want to estimate the mean of a distribution, I can approximate it how? Computing over a set of samples the value x. The function g is just the value x. These are the expected values of the mean of a distribution. I can approximate it by taking samples generated according to the distribution and taking their average. If I want to compute the expectation of x, well, let's make it, we don't need to put the x in the square, let's say, If I want to compute the expectation of x squared, this is defined as x squared times the density, which we can approximate as what? Well, if we have a set of samples generated according to the distribution f of x, we take those samples, we take the square, and we add those together, and then we divide by the number of samples.

so we can this is part of the probability courses i'm not going to prove that this is true we can in general under conditions that allow this but we will not discuss because for us there is no issue in doing that we can approximate this by taking the sum of the function that we take the expectation of. Here we are taking what? The expected cost for sample X when the class is small c. So, it's the distribution is the distribution of the samples of class X according to the real world, the evaluator. So, the real application distribution. The cost is what we are taking the expectation of. It's the cost of classifying sample X with our recognizer which gives action A, or if you prefer, label A,

when the class label is actually the correct label of the sample is actually C. We replace this what? As a sum of the samples of that class, because we are computing the distribution, the expectation with respect to the distribution of the samples of that class. So imagine that in our dataset we have samples of that class, so we take an average of samples of that class of the cost of classifying the sample with our recognizing. That is, what we were doing before is actually a way to estimate, to get an approximation of the bias risk. This involves what? Well, I have my samples. i classify i use p to say that this is the predicted value let's use a the action the predicted action according to my classifier this is of course each of this is an action of x

one and the recognizer we have a label this is given this is given these are predicted c1 c2 etc cn for each of these things are going to compute the cost of action i when the label is ci so i predicted class ai while the correct class was ci then i sum overall samples and i divide by n why because that gives me an approximation a finite an approximation computed through a set of samples of the bias risk. When does this work? When I can assume that the application data, the evaluation set data are sampled from the application data. So, if I take a set of application data and I use them as evaluation set, I can imagine that that set corresponds to a set of samples that were generated according to the unknown evaluation distribution,

the real world distribution. I can assume that I don't know the real world distribution, but if I get samples for my application, I collect a set of those, they will be sampled from that distribution. So they will reflect the distribution that I want. In particular, notice that I don't need to sample from the full distribution, but I can actually sample, as I said before, if I want to approximate only this, I just need to sample from the class conditional distribution. So I just need to have a set of samples for each class. From the set of samples for each class, I will compute an average cost of error, which is an approximation of the expected cost of that class. And then we combine this average cost,

that is an approximation of the expected cost computed over a set of samples, with the class prior, average everything over classes, this will give me what is called empirical bias risk. The empirical bias risk is the bias risk where I use what?

A set of samples for each class to approximate the per class expected error. and I use as a function of application prior, an application prior pi to represent my estimate of the empirical prior of the application data, the one that I don't know, that I assume is part of the specification. So, how can I estimate the application prior? Well, typically, if I want to estimate the application prior, if I don't have any reason to select a given prior, one thing that I can do is collect a set of application data, label them, and then compute the relative frequency. That's, again, a way to approximate this application prior. In other contexts, I will build my model with an application prior in mind,

and I will simply say that the empirical bias risk measures for a given prior the approximation of the bias cost that we would have for an application that has that empirical prior and samples distributed in a way that the samples that I have in my evaluation set can be considered as being generated from the distribution of the class samples of each class. So, can be interpreted, the samples of class C can be interpreted as samples from the distribution of X given class C and E. So, generated by somebody who knows the distribution of the application data, the class condition distribution of the application data.

So, the empirical bias risk measures, as we said before, it's exactly the expected cost if I assume that only my evaluation set, that my evaluation set consists of all the application data that I wanted to classify, or I can see it as an approximation where I use a finite number of samples to estimate unexpected cost for the application that I want to solve. So the empirical bias risk gives me unexpected cost for the error rates. And again, it can be computed from the cost matrix and the error rates for each class. Let's see with an example.

The empirical bias risk can be itself extracted from the confusion matrix and, of course, take into account the matrix of cost, because we need to have the matrix of cost. Let's imagine a three-class problem. We have this cost matrix and this set of prior probabilities for the application. So we fix the prior probabilities. Either somebody told us or we decided that our application reflects these prior probabilities. We use our model and we classify a set of samples which may not have the same prior probability as the application for the reasons we said before. Ideally, the application data, we would throw them directly from the evaluation set. We would draw it directly from the application data with the same proportions.

but typically if the classes in the applications are very unbalanced, this would lead us to very imbalanced evaluation sets that typically require us to process a huge number of samples that are irrelevant just to account properly for the prior class probabilities. So we prefer to keep the two things distinct, to allow ourselves to have data sets, evaluation sets, which can be interpreted as being sampled from the class conditional distributions, but whose empirical priors may not reflect the application prior. So, these are the application prior for the task. This is the cost matrix for the task. We have an evaluation set which has different empirical prior for which we compute this confusion matrix.

This means that we have, what? 400 samples from class 1, 402 samples for class 2, and I think 402, something like that, for class 3. So you see that the dataset in this case balanced while the application prior is not. The imbalance here is not that big that we could probably create a evaluation set that has these frequencies, but... Is there an issue? Some issue? So, up to now, you are able to compute this, because computing a confusion matrix is just a matter of running your classifier over all the set of the three incidentalist points, as you were doing up to now, rather than computing in just accuracy, for each point, you accumulate it to the entry that corresponds to its class and to its class and the prediction that you gave for that point.

So, you create the confusion matrix, and now from this term, we see how we can compute the bias risk. Well, the bias risk requires that we compute, first of all, the per class average error. So for each class, we need to compute the average error, which will then combine with the prior. Now, let's see for class one. I will copy this matrix here. 205, 145, 50.

111, 199, 92. 56 5 and the cost matrix which is what is the cost matrix telling us that correct prediction has zero cost that if I have a sample from class 1 and I classify it as either 0 or 2 I have a cost 1 and if I have a sample from class 2 which is classified as 0 the cost is actually two. So we have two larger errors. Samples of class two labeled as zero have a cost two. Samples of class zero labeled as two have also a cost equal to two. So there are two errors that are more expensive than the other kinds of errors. Correct classification is zero error. There are errors which have cost one, and there are some errors which have cost two. Nothing that did a symmetry, but nothing avoided me to have an asymmetric matrix.

It's just the way I made the example, but I could have made it differently. Now, let's consider samples of class 1. Samples of class 1 are that of the first column. What is the average cost? It's the sum of the samples of class 1 of the cost that I have for my decisions. What I had? Well, 205 times I had a sample of class 1. I had a scenario where I have C is, let's call them class 1, 2 and 3. I have class 1, and I predicted what? These 205 times I predicted class 1. So, I have 205 times the cost of 1 given 1, which is 0. I have 205 samples, which are from class 1, for which I predicted class 1. Each of these contributes 0. Then I have how many samples of class 1 predicted as 2?

Let's call it A, the action. How many samples from class 1 predicted as class 2?

145. How much do I pay for this? I pay 1. And then the other samples of class 1 are what? 50. Class 1 predicted as class 3. How much do I pay for this? 2. so if i sum over samples the cost of each prediction given the label i have 205 times i get an error that is zero a cost that is zero 145 times i have the combination cost of two given one which is one and 50 times i will find a cost of three given one that is two so overall my cost will be the sum of this. If you prefer, you have the expression here, how much, whatever it is.

390 probably, something like that.

I need to divide by the number of samples of class 1. What is the number of samples of class 1? This, plus this, plus this. 400. so this divided 400 is the average cost for a sample of class 1 so the average cost for a sample of class 1 and it's not probably 390 here or this one is wrong yes this was 1 not 2 yes this is 245 it's 245 so the error the expected error for class 1 is this one.

Then I multiply by 0.3 for the prior and I get the contribution to the expected error of class one. So if average error for class one is this, then I will multiply by prior. I repeat it for class two. Now it should be easy. For class two, what do I have? 111 times I pay what?

Hmm? One.

199 times, I pay how much?

Zero. And the other 92 times, I pay how much? One again. So I sum this, and I get 2, 0, 3 out of, this was, I think, 402, if I remember right. Which is then multiplied by 0, 4, once I plug the prior. So the error rate per class is just this term. So I have an error rate per class of the first class, which is this, then an error rate for the second class, which is this. And for the third class, I will have 56 times 2 plus 121 times 1 plus 225 times 0 divided the total number. So overall, I will have 245 by 400 is the contribution of class 1, which then I multiply by the prior for class 1, which is 0, 3, plus this error rate, 203 divided by 402, multiplied by the prior for class 2, which is 0, 4,

plus whatever was the last one,

something like this, probably, multiplied by 0, 3. What?

is 112 plus 121, so it looks like 233 or something like that. This is the empirical bias risk. Okay?

So, we computed the empirical bias risk, that is the expected cost that we pay if we use our classifier. If we think that one corresponds to one euro, then we would pay on average per sample 56 cents. So using our classifier has a cost of 56 cents. If another classifier gives a lower cost, it will perform better on this data set. So we can expect that it will perform better also on data that has the same distribution.

Okay, questions up to here. Yes? No, it means if you never use, remember that you have to do the classification. So you are required to take one action. So you need to compare it to taking an action without using the classifier. Imagine that taking an action without using the classifier means that you will still have these 1,204 points for which you will need to take an action. So you will pay a cost because you need to do something about those points. You are forced to do something. Like not doing anything is like taking an action that we say the action is do nothing. So even doing nothing will have a cost. So, not using the classifier, not doing something about the samples, is an action itself.

So, you have to imagine that you have a set. Here we said the set of action is equal to the set of labels, but in general the set of action is whatever you do based on the samples. Not doing anything is itself an action. Not doing anything will have its own cost. So it's like I take my umbrella or I don't. Not taking the umbrella we saw before still has a cost for all the scenarios, for some scenarios. Taking the umbrella has a cost. Not doing anything has a cost because if you were using your classifier, that's because you needed to do the classification. Not doing the classification at all is an action on its own. If not doing the classification at all has a lower cost than any other action,

that's the action you would do, but that's because that is the action we received as the minimum cost in any case. But here you don't say, I pay 56% per sample, then I should not use it. Not using that may have a higher cost. Not using it, I can say, okay, if you don't use it, it's like not deciding, but the world will then decide that everything is labeled as zero, for example. So not choosing to do anything means that in the end something will happen in any case. So you need to evaluate the cost of the action that will happen in any case. Imagine deciding whether to treat the patient or not. Treating the patient has a cost of 56 cents. But not treating doesn't have a cost zero. Not treating as the action not doing anything has a cost that is non-zero.

So here we assume that you have to assign a label to the sample because if you don't assign, that's worse than doing the assignment in any case. Well, that's not worse. We see that there is a way to assign that is the worst we can do, and anything that is worse than that is actually harmful. So we will say we will put a limit to when a model is actually something that we should not use at all. but here you are re-managing no matter what for the sample x1x you need to give me a class label you give me the class label which has the lowest cost sorry you use the classifier that gives me the lowest average cost is it clear? if you prefer you can see all this but typically it creates a problem rather than having a cost for errors,

you have a gain if you do classification right. So imagine that rather than having a basis of cost, so 0, 0, 0, you have a matrix where you have 0 for some error, and then all the others have a negative value that represents a gain. You will select the one that has the most negative value because that's the highest gain. here it's just the way you normalize you say that not doing choosing doing correctly as a cost zero choosing correctly as a cost zero and making a mistake as a cost this is different from zero but you need to take an action you need to select the same as if you say there is an error this is a cost zero and all the others are gains in that case you may think okay then i will do

something because I gain from doing that. But you can imagine that you do the classification because you can imagine that there is an implicit... Imagine like this. For each sample, I give you one euro, and then this is what you spend for using the classifier. Each time you classify samples, you get one euro minus the cost of doing the error. So you want to compute the cost that you have for the classifier for every sample, and your gain will be on average 1 minus 0.56 in this case. So you are interested in measuring the expected cost. But the expected cost, you need to imagine that is an expected cost that as we define it now is normalized so that getting things correctly doesn't give you a gain

and doesn't give you a loss. While doing an error gives you a loss. But you can imagine that in real life, making things correctly will give you a gain while making an error will give you a loss. But the thing is that we can renormalize the cost. Essentially, if you add the same value to all the elements of the cost matrix, it will not change the relative performance of the models. The difference in cost that you have, it's as if, as exactly this, it's as if for each classification I were giving you a fixed gain, and then you have a cost. you can imagine that the gain is implicit because we don't write it in the cost matrix but if you prefer you can imagine that you have a fixed gain for each sample

and then a cost for using the classifier that is due to the fact that you make wrong predictions you predict because you have a gain you gain one somebody pays you to do the prediction but every time the prediction is wrong you have to pay for that prediction something back And this measures the cost of using the classifier, that particular classifier that we were using. Okay.

Other questions?

Okay, let's consider a binary problem again, because for the binary problem it's easier to compact everything. In this case, we have a matrix with four costs. As I said before, we can show that we don't lose generality by assuming that correct prediction have a cost zero. Again, you can imagine that correct predictions have any cost, but then you can remove that cost from all of the other actions, and that would not impact, but that would impact the average cost, the expected cost, but in a way that different recognizer will end up exactly with the same difference in expected costs. So it's like having a fixed cost that doesn't depend from the recognizer that we can remove from all the cost matrix.

So we assume that correct labels have cost zero and wrong labels have a cost that is greater than zero. Notice that we could do the opposite. We could assume that errors have a cost zero and correct classification has a cost that is greater than zero. Things would still work out, but that's just a matter of then changing the way we label actions rather than using class predicted label, use the opposite of that. So, in short words, we can, working on the cost matrix, get to a case where the cost of correct prediction is zero, cast the problem as a problem where the cost of the prediction correct correct predictions is zero and the cost of errors is positive in that case we can call the cost of the two kind of errors

cost of false positive and cost of false negatives why because remember that predicting true when the class is false is a false positive. Predicting false when the class is true, predicted false, so it's a negative, but it's incorrect, so it's a false negative. So we can call this cost of false positive and cost of false negative. Now let's rewrite the empirical bias risk in functions as a function of this cost. Empirical bias risk is what? well we say that ci star is the prediction of class label of the class so what we up to now call the of the class so what we up to now call them action a a of x r for the sample I let's shorten it to ci star the predicted class so it's for each sample in our application evaluation set for class two we compute the cost of what of the prediction for that sample when the sample is from class true divided by the number of samples of class two multiplied by the

action a a of x r

prior this is what well remember that for those classes we have the costs are this so if i have

a confusion matrix which has false negative and and true positive, okay? Class, sorry, false positive and true negative. This false class and true class.

Okay, I was inverting the class here.

Okay, imagine this is the cost matrix And this is the confusion matrix, the one we had at the beginning. Remember, the one we had here. True negative, false negative, false positive, true positive.

And we repeat the same process. How do we compute the error, the average error from class 1? Well, we have how many errors? True negative times zero plus true positive times cost of force positive. This is the cost of errors for class one. All this divided by what? The total number of class one. So, number of samples of class one. This what? True positive divided. True, sorry. True, not true positive. false positive. Here it's false positive. Class one. We have true negative samples, which cost zero, and false positive samples, which cost this. So, false positive here. All divided by the number of samples, what do we get? We get false positive divided through negative plus false positive times the cost of false positive.

This term here. But this is what? False positive divided through negative plus false positive, we call it how?

False positive rate. Remember here.

False positive rate. False positive divided through negative plus false positive. tempos errors for class false error for the class zero the class false what is the prior for class false one minus the application prior by t what is the cost for class it's it's this term here in the empirical bias remember the empirical bias is what some over classes of the average cost for that class times the prior for that class.

For class two, what do we have? False negative times cost of false negative plus true positive times zero divided the total number of samples from the true class. But false negatives divided, false negative plus true positive, We call it false negative rate. So this will be false negative rate times the cost of false positive. Here I forgot to put the cost of false. Here times the cost of false positive. Here times the cost of false negative. Times the prior for the class. So I have, let's do it again. For the true class, I have a cost that is false positive times cost of false positive. divided number of false samples, so false positive rate times cost of false positives times the prior probability that I have a sample from class F.

For the true class, I have Fn times cost of false negative divided number of true samples, so false negative rate times cost of false negatives times the prior for that class. So the empirical bias risk takes this form. exactly the value that we were introducing at the beginning. For the binary problem, we have seen that this corresponds to an expected cost computed over classes. So we take an expected cost per class, that is the cost multiplied by the rate of the errors of that class. So for each class, we compute the corresponding error rate. We multiply it by the cost, and we average over the classes weighted by the application prior to the classes. Or, if you prefer, this represents the probability of having an error

and a sample of the true class. The other term is the probability of having an error and a sample of the false class. In the empirical, in the frequencies approach, this could be interpreted as a probability of error given true class times probability of true class. So it's the probability of error and true class times the cost of error in that case, the cost of error for true class. When I have an error and I'm from the true class, in this case, the only cost that I have is the cost of false negatives. When it's an error, since it's binary, it's by necessity an error where I label it as false. an error for the true class can have only one possible labeling we have a binary problem and the set of actions corresponds to a binary labeling so that's exactly what we defined

at the beginning that now we have extended to a multi-class problem we have seen also for a multi-class problem how to address this to take into account both the per class error rates and the cost, the per class error arrays appear here. How? Well, essentially, if you move this 400 inside, you're computing the cost of, in this case, for class 1, of labeling 1 when it's 1 times the number of errors of the kind.

Of the kind.

0 given 0 divided the number of samples of class 1. 1 given 1 divided the number of samples of class 1. Plus the cost of labeling 2 when it's 1 times the number of errors of the kind. I labeled 2 when the sample was 1 divided the number of samples from class 1 and so on. So, if you move this inside, each of these, 205 divided 400, can be interpreted as the fraction of currently classified samples for that class. 145 divided 400 can be interpreted as one of the possible error rates. Which one? The one where I assign the sample to the class 2. Then I have an error rate of 550 over 400, where it's the fraction of samples that I assign to class 3, which belong to class 1. So in the multi-class version, we have that we consider not just an error rate,

but for each class, we consider all possible error rates corresponding to the different kind of errors that we may have. Each of these error rates is weighted by the corresponding cost, and everything then is multiplied by the prior to guess the empirical bias risk. But it's just an extension of what we introduced with the binary problem. For the binary problem, what we get here is exactly the point that we introduced at the beginning. Now, last thing, this term is unnormalized, will not tell us by itself whether a classifier is good or not. The last step to define a normalized classifier is to consider what we will see our optimal bias decision if we look at prior probabilities alone. That is, how a classifier that looks only on prior probability would perform.

We will probably not have the time to show it, but if a model would decide only on prior probability, we could show that it would always select a single class as output. Because there would be another class that is optimal in the sense that choosing always that class minimizes the expected error. we will not prove it because we don't have time but an optimal solution consists in choosing always a single class let's consider then a binary problem we have two choices if we don't look at the feature vector we can always decide say label the sample as true or say always label the samples as f in this case we will have what if everything is labeled as true the false positive rate will be one if everything is labeled as true it means that i will have zero for the

in the confusion matrix in these two terms and here i will have number of false samples and numbers of two samples two samples this is my confusion matrix if everything is labeled as true all four samples are predicted as true and all true samples are predicted as true If I compute the bias risk for this scenario, this is what I will get. All the errors, all the samples of class false are misclassified, so I get one sample whenever I get an error, whenever I get a sample of class false, and the cost of that error is the cost of a false positive. This is the bias risk if I decide to label everything as true. The same, if I decide to label everything as false, then the opposite happens. All points will be classified as false.

So, this is my confusion matrix. And what I have, these are errors. So, the error is probability of having a sample from class true times the cost of classifying that sample as zero. Every time I see a sample from class true, I'm classifying it wrongly. I can take the minimum of these two as the cost that I will have if I always choose the best class. Notice that I don't need to know the samples to decide this. If I know the prior and the cost, I can choose which will be the label that I will give to the samples, which I will choose the one that gives me the lowest cost. I can use that as a reference cost and define what is called a normalized cost that is obtained by taking my bias error risk

and divided by this value. This gives me a normalized cost that reflects what? If my normalized cost is one, it means that I will do as bad as if I were not using my classifier. If I don't use the classifier, I can always rely on the prior information alone. So I'm not using the classifier, but I rely on my prior information alone I would get a normalized cost of one. So a classifier which has a normalized cost of one works as bad as a classifier that doesn't look at the sample. A classifier that has a normalized cost greater than one is harmful. It's not only making errors, but it's making more errors than what I would do if I were to not use the classifier at all. Remember at the beginning,

We had an example where the classifier was doing 99.9% accuracy, and we made an example where that was actually 10 times worse than not using the classifier at all. Here we have a way to decide directly by looking at the value. If it's greater than 1, then using just prior information would give us a lower average cost. The classifier is useful when the detection cost normalized one is lower than one. If it's lower than one, it means that the classifier is able to extract some information out of the feature vector to improve classification with respect to what we had looking just at prior information. So we have now solved the problem of having a metric that is parameterized by the prior application prior.

takes into account the cost of errors and is normalized. So the absolute value of this already tells us whether the classifier is useful or not. We call this minimum, sorry, we call this normalized detection cost function.

And it's a way to measure how good is a classifier compared to not using the classifier at all, taking into account application prior, cost of errors of the different kinds. Of course, here we see it for binary, but we can generalize it to multi-class. We can take the empirical bias risk, compute the bias risk of each system that always predicts a single class. If we have k classes, we have k possibilities of predicting always a given class. select the classifier that gives the lowest error among these and use that as normalizing value. Now, one thing that is interesting is that if we scale,

since the minimum DCF itself is defined as what? Essentially, this is a DCF computed for a classifier which has exactly this price and this cost, but is using just the prior information, which means that if we scale both these terms and these relative DCS by the same value, the normalized DCF, that scaling factor would appear at the top and at the bottom, so it will cancel out. So we redefine the way we compute the unnormalized DCF by scaling it by this mysterious value. we would get that the unnormalized rescaled dcf would look like this now this value is not chosen randomly it's chosen in a way that if we define this as pi tilde we can see that these other terms is equal to one minus pi tilde the dcf can be expressed the scale dcf

corresponds to the DCF of this as this expression. So if we scale the DCF by this factor, we can rewrite the rescaled DCF in this way. What's interesting here is that this looks like what? It looks like to the normalized DCF of an application which has a probability of class 1 equal to by tilde and the probability of class 0 equal to 1 minus pi tilde. And if we were to compute a normalized DCF and the cost of errors equal to 1. What's interesting is that if we were to compute a normalized DCF, so if we were to compute an unnormalized DCF with these values, will get a different value than if we were to compute unnormalized DCF with this other set of values. But if we were to compute the normalized DCF

for this cost of errors and the normalized DCF for this application, so for this other set of costs and prior, these two normalized DCF for the same data set would give the same value. That is, the normalized DCF computer for an application which has, for the binary problem, a cost CFN for the false negative, a cost CFP false positive, and a prior pi tilde, is the DCF corresponds to the DCF of an application which has both costs equal to 1 and our application prior equal to pi tilde. What does it mean? It means that here we are computing what? The expected cost for a given application. Given applications means that the cost of errors are defined by the task. They are a property of the problem that we know to solve.

The prior probability, we also said, we assume it's given and it's part of the problem when we want to evaluate, we assume that we evaluate for a given prior probability. This is saying what? That these two applications would give us the same empirical bias. This is, if we have a data set with some samples and a recognizer R, whether we measure the normalized DCF for this application for this other application, provided that pi tilde is defined in this way, we would always obtain the same value regardless of the samples that we have in our dataset and the recognizer. That is, from the point of view of normalized DCF, those two applications represent the same thing. An application can be described in this way,

but if I describe the application in this other way, I will always get the same normalized DCF. The unnormalized, the biased risk would be different, but the normalized biased risk would be the same.

This is interesting because you can see that here the cost of the errors disappeared again. This tells us that the cost of the errors, at least for a binary problem, can be implicitly reabsorbed in the prior. That is, an application where I have some prior and some given cost of errors is equivalent in terms of normalized cost to an application which has uniform cost and a prior that has been now modified to take into account the original application costs. So I can parametrize an application by a single value. I don't need to have three. I can parametrize everything by a simple value. the effective prior, this pi tilde is called effective prior. It's called effective because it's not the frequency

with which we expect to see the samples in our data set. But it's a prior that it behaves now. Well, if our application had pi tilde fraction of samples from class 1 and the cost of the errors were the same, who gave us the same normalization cost as our original application. So we can, rather than working explicitly with the cost, account for the cost through the prior. You can see what? If I increase the cost of false negative, the prior, the effective prior for class one increases. Increases the cost of one class. it's the same as taking the same amount the same as keeping the same cost but increasing the ratio of samples of that class if I increase the cost of errors for one class I get a similar effect as if I were increasing

the number of samples of that class in proportion to the other class because now those samples weight more in terms of normalized cost so what matters here you see it's always relative cost of the classes Here, if I change the cost of the two classes in the same way, my effective prior doesn't change. So what matters here is always the relative cost of the two classes. So increasing one cost with respect to the other is equivalent to assuming that there is a larger amount of samples of that class with respect to those of the other class. This allows us to parameterize all applications in terms of this single number that represents an effective prior that summarizes for binary problems the effects of the application prior

pi or pi t, I think was here, the cost of false positive and the cost of false negatives. All these can be summarized with a single value. And that will be useful later when we will actually use this value to parametrize applications. So for binary problem, applications of interest can be parametrized by one value, the effective prior that contains information on the application prior, and the cost of different error rates. And again, we can go back finally. the error rate that we defined at the beginning corresponds to specific working points of specific triplets of prior cost of false positive and cost of false negatives. For example, if we were to compute the error rate, we would assume the empirical data set prior

as application prior and the cost of error is equal to one. They will give exactly what we define as error rate. And then there are other things that of less in lower interest for multiclass we have more terms involved for multiclass we cannot condense everything into a single prior so for multiclass we cannot represent equivalent application with a single value so it's less interesting to do this kind of reasoning Okay, we still need to define bias decision, but before we get there, let's see how what we've seen up to now, the threshold affects our classification. Up to now, we've seen classifiers, either generative models or for the LDA, we were projecting the samples and then comparing with a threshold and at some point I told you in the

laboratory please try changing the threshold and see what happens in our cases we have a score that is compared with a value typically a larger score means we favor class true lower score means we favor class false let's see how this affects our empirical bias risk we up to now we have considered the classifier was already giving decisions. Now, let's imagine that we have had a step before. The classifier gives a score. Then we threshold this, the score with a threshold, to get our decisions. Let's see how the selection of the threshold affects our error rates. Imagine we have a set of samples from the true class and a set of samples from the false class. Again, let's consider a binary problem.

If we have a set of samples, we can compute the histogram of the scores of the samples. If we have enough samples, these histograms become like a smooth curve, so we can draw it as if it was the distribution of the scores for the two classes. So the red line gives the distribution of the score for the true class. The blue line is the distribution of the score for the false class. What are false true, predicted false, predicted true? This is true negative. This is false negative. This is false positive. And this is true positive. How can I do, where do I spot these values on this plot? Well, if I threshold my scores here, this is the amount of points that are what? Belong to the true class and are labeled as true.

So the area below this curve corresponds to the false positive rate. If this curve integrates to one, it's a distribution. The area from the threshold onwards below the red curve is the fraction of points that are from class true, labeled as class true, so the false positive rate. Then when I see the other points, Whatever is here below the blue is the true positive rate.

Whatever is here in the blue is correctly classified, so this is the true negative rate. Now what remains? These that I wrote in yellow are what? false class labeled as true. False class labeled as true is this one, false positive rate.

Green are what? They are true class labeled as false. False negative rate. So you can see that what happens. Well, this ratio allows us to visualize how these numbers change. If I move the threshold to the right, the false positive rate decreases, the false negative rate increases. If I move the threshold to the left,

then the false positive rate increases. I have more errors for the blue class. The false negative rate decreases. I have less error for the red class. We can visualize as a function of the threshold the two error rates, how they change with this kind of plots. We can plot for each threshold what is the error rate for the two classes and visualize how the threshold affects the error rates. Remember that affecting the error rates means it will affect our decisions, so it will affect the true positive and false positive rates, so it will change the empirical bias risk. The biblical bias risk is what? It's the false positive rate times the relative cost, relative prior times the same for the other class.

So changing the error rates for each class will change the bias risk.

We will see in the laboratory how to plot the error rate, the bias risk as a function of the threshold once we have seen how to change the threshold. since we've seen work to plot. For the moment, what we can start doing is we can visualize the trade-off between the different kind of errors. This is something you may already have seen. Another way to visualize the trade-off is through what are called receiver operating characteristic curves or equivalent detection error trade-off curves. These are the same plot, just this is a non-linear scale. If you see, this is non-linear. And here you have true positive rate. here you have false negative rate which are the same information just flipped essentially this

plot has obtained how well imagine you have the distribution of your score as you change the threshold you will change the two false positive and false negative rate if for each threshold you select the two error rates and you put a point you will have a parametric curve that that as the threshold changes, we sweep all possible values of the threshold, all possible combinations that I have for false positive rate and false negative rate, and give me, well, each point on this curve corresponds to a pair of false positive and false negative rate computed that are given threshold. So you can imagine you compute for each threshold all possible, all the corresponding values false positive and false negative rate you put a point in this plot corresponding to each threshold

you connect the points you get a curve that looks like this as a function of the threshold which is implicit so you don't see the value of the threshold here but you can see how changing the threshold affects the trade-off between the two kind of errors you can see that when one error decreases, the other increases.

Okay.

Okay, last thing that we need to do. Other questions up to here?

Okay, we have seen how to evaluate our classifier. The last thing that we need to do is we have seen how to evaluate, and if you follow the last 10 minutes, you have seen that our decisions, well, it was implicit from the beginning, the way the classifier makes its decisions will affect the error rates that we get for the two classes. We have seen that the error rates depends on the cost of errors and the error rates per class. So how can we make optimal, how can our classifier make decisions that are optimal in the sense that they aim at minimizing the expected costs that we observe. Well, now we have the problem that we need to figure out how our classifier should map its choice, its posterior probabilities to decisions.

So, up to now, we have assumed that there was a classifier that gave us output, the labels. now let's go one step back and assume that the classifier gives us class posterior probabilities from class posterior probabilities we need now to figure out which class to assign each to each label so given the vector of class posterior probabilities we need to define the function that maps this vector of class posterior probabilities to a label. So we need to find the label, the optimal label for this vector of class posterior probabilities. We follow the same idea of bias error. We have a cost of actions. We know the cost of labeling A when the class is K. But now we have it in a different perspective.

We have a single sample for which we need to decide the optimal label. Now, we need to move in the context where here we don't know the sample label. The only thing that we have at our disposal is the classifier conditional probabilities. Let's write explicitly the classifier. So the classifier gave us conditional probabilities. Then we have a matrix of costs as before. Here are the predictors. Here are the labels. And we need to decide which label to predict. Again, we do that by going through computing expected cost. But notice that now the expectation is taken with respect to what? With respect to our limited knowledge on the class probabilities. If we believe that these are the probabilities of the single classes,

we can compute what is the cost that we expect to pay if we choose to label as class A. So, for example, if... Let's see if I have an example. We have the classifier that gave us class posterior probability. This is the cost matrix. The prior, for the moment, doesn't interest us because the classifier already gave us posterior probabilities. Somehow it used the prior if it needed to do so.

Now we need to ask ourselves, should we label it as class 1, class 2, or class 3? Well, let's compute the expected cost of labeling,

of choosing class 1. of labeling class 1. Now, we don't know the class label of the samples. What we know is the posterior probability according to the classifier. So, we compute the expected cost according to these probabilities. We have a cost of classifying 1 when the class is 1 times the probability when the class is 1 given the sample and R, plus the cost of classifying 1 when the class is 2, times the posterior probability of the class is 2, times the cost of classifying 1 when the class is 2, 3, sorry, times the probability of the class is 3. This is the expected cost of classifying as 1 the label. If we decide to classify as 1 when the class is K, it's an expectation on the posterior probability of K

given the sample and the recognizer of the cost of classifying one. So, let's say we assign label one. What is the expected cost? There is a 40% probability we are correct and we pay zero. 25% probability we are wrong and the correct class is one. So, we pay a cost of one. And 35% probability that we are wrong. Sorry, it's this one.

The values are the same, but it's in the opposite order. 40%, we are correct. 25%, sorry, no, it was correct. 25%, the samples from class 2 and we label as 0. 35%, the sample was from class 3 and we label it as 1. So, the sum of this, on this row, times this value is the expected cost of classifying as class 1. And we can repeat it for class 2. What is the expected cost of classifying as class 2? Well, for class 1, we have 0.4 times 0 plus 0.25 times 1 plus 0.35 times 2 equals 0.95. So if I classify as class 1, my expected cost is 0.95. If I classify as class 2, what do I get? there is a 40% probability that it's from class 1. So how much I will pay if it's from class 1 and I classify as class 2?

1. Then there is a 25% probability it's from class 1, from class 2. How much do I pay if I classify as class 2 and it's from class 2?

Plus 35%, again, it's from class 2. is from class three and I classify as class two. This is how much I pay, 0.75. How much do I pay if I choose to label as class three?

0.4 times two plus 0.25 times one plus 0.35 times zero.

Overall, 1.05. Which label should I choose? label 2, lowest cost, even though the posterior probability for class 2 is the lowest. Notice that class 2, according to just the posterior probability alone, is the lowest possible. However, according to my classifier, if I choose class 2, it's true that I have higher chance of being wrong. But the way I'm wrong is less expensive. consider that being wrong when i'm in class two when i sign class two my cost is maximum one while if i'm wrong for the other two classes the cost may become two when i'm wrong in for example when the when i say class one but the class was three the cost is two so it's true that i according to myself to my classifier will be wrong more often but the average cost will be lower because

because when I'm wrong, I will pay a lower cost because I'm wrong. Imagine by absolute that labeling as class 2 at zero cost always, it means that whenever I say something is from class 2, even if I'm wrong, I'm not paying anything. So why should I choose any other class? Even if the probability of being class 2 is zero, if I'm wrong, I don't have any cost, so I have no reason not to choose class 2 in this case. So in general, the expected cost is the expected cost for choosing class A. It's expected cost when I choose class A and the class label is K. The expectation is taken according to what? The class posterior distribution for that sample given the recognizer. Notice that the distribution that is involved is the recognizer distribution.

So the optimality of this decision is minimizing the expected cost according to the recognizer. This is not the same as minimizing the expected cost according to somebody who knows the application data distribution. The recognizer has only limited knowledge. It only knows the distribution up to the value that is able to assign to each class. So the decision is optimal from the point of view of this partial knowledge. So it's optimal bias decision. It's optimal from the point of view of this partial knowledge. How can we connect the two? If the evaluator who knows the application data and the recognizer agree, so that means that if I either use the evaluator labels, the evaluator knowledge to compute class posterior probabilities.

Or, if the evaluator is the recognizer itself who was evaluating itself with its own limited knowledge, in those two cases, the optimal bias decision is also the decision that minimizes the bias risk. That is, the bias risk, remember, was an expectation of unexpected cost, But now this expected cost, the cost for choosing action A, we can express it in terms of class posterior probabilities. And we can show that, well, I will skip the proof. Essentially, if we choose the action that minimizes, what is it? The action that minimizes the expected cost, this will minimize the empirical bias risk when the empirical bias risk is evaluated with the same distribution of the recognizer. which means either the recognizer is the evaluator itself,

so has perfect knowledge of the data, and then he will give us the same output that the application, those who know the application would give for those data. And in that case, the optimal choice on a single point would minimize the expected cost over the whole set of points, or, which is what we will do when we train logistic regression models, when the evaluator is the recognizer itself. So if we were to evaluate the performance on a data set where the recognizer performs classification using the same knowledge on the distribution of the data given by the recognizer, then, again, the single decision on the single point would give us the minimum of the expectation of the bias risk over all the samples.

The optimality is in this sense. and i say that we stop here because it's late okay this we will see next time

Thank you.
