---
title: "2. Model Evaluation & Bayes Decisions II and LR"
source: local
filename: 2. Model Evaluation & Bayes Decisions II and LR.mp4
duration: 02:30:38
date_created: 
author: ""
tags: []
---

# 2. Model Evaluation & Bayes Decisions II and LR

3. Model Evaluation & Bayes Decisions II and LR

Thank you. Okay, good afternoon. Good afternoon.

okay we have only one projector working

Okay, while we wait for the other projector to come up, hopefully other questions of what we saw last time, we introduced a way to evaluate classifiers by means of what is called empirical bias risk we have seen the empirical bias risk for multi-class and for binary problems

we have seen for many problems we said that this could also be called decision function and we have seen the normalized version of the bias risk that normalizes the bias risk by the risk of a classifier that would take the minimum cost decision based on prior information alone

and then we have seen that for binary problems we can represent

the normalized bias risk in terms of a parameter that defines the application that we want to compute the risk for we have said that in general an application will have a prior for the true class a cost of false positive and the cost of force negative for the binary problem and we have said seeing that we can summarize in terms of

empirical minima in terms of normalized by its risk the same application would be equivalent to an application that has an effective prior by tilde that depends on the original prior and

the cost of the two kinds of errors so we have seen that essentially we can

parameterize an application by a single value that represents an effective prior that is the prior that we would have the prior that would give the same normalized cost if the cost of errors was assumed to be one then we have started seeing that for binary problems we have said that for binary problems we can cast the problem of making decision as comparing a score with a threshold we started seeing the change in the threshold will change the different kind of errors that we have

then we have started discussing how to choose where to cut how to do this well we started considering a multi-class problem where we computed where we introduced bias optimal decisions that are worth are the decision that for each sample minimize the expected cost from the point of view of the classifier who's making the decision we use the letter r if you're asking why for the recognizer because recognizer is a synonym for us of classifier but using letter c there will be too many c there will be the c for cost there will be the c for class and then then there will be the C for classifier and so on. So that's why we're using letter R here for the classifier. But in any case, the expected cost

according to the knowledge of the classifier. We said that these are optimal in the sense that they would minimize the bias risk if the distribution of the data was the distribution that the classifier has about the data. So for data which has the same distribution as the classifier outputs, then minimizing each decision would bring a global minimization of the bias risk. In general, this may not be the case because typically the classifier knowledge is partial and it will not reflect necessarily well the... distribution that we will have in your application data.

Now for binary problems, that's where we stopped. We can essentially formalize the problem we have said as a problem where the application depends on a prior probability and two different cost of errors, the cost of false positive and the cost of false negatives. Let me just see, okay.

Now, let's see how this affects the way we make decisions for the binary problem. Up to here are there questions about what we saw last week. This was just a summary of what we did.

No questions, so everything is clear. okay remember that when we were discussing generative classifiers the generative classifier at some point we said that we could for a binary problem compute the log likelihood ratio this is the logarithm of the class conditional let's use true and false since in these slides we use true and false or the class true and false, and then compare it with a threshold that was depending on prior information alone. That's what we did before we introduced the cost of errors. Now, let's consider a generalization where we consider an application which has different costs for the different errors. We see that, again, what matters is the relative cost between these two to make the decision,

but let's go instead. now to make our decision we do what we need to compute the expected cost for the two actions so we have a classifier let's consider that the classifier gives us some class conditional probabilities then we have some let's use true and false we said we have some prior probabilities we combine this and we obtain class posterior probabilities for the true and the false class this is what the classifier would do up to now and what we did the way we showed we would make decision was reflecting this was reflecting now we take the logarithm between these two and we compare it with zero when we didn't even consider cost we did this and from this is followed the comparison of the log-like ratio with minus the prior log odds.

But the point was we compared class posterior probabilities. The largest is the class to which we assign the sample. Now, let's see how this changes with the cost. We use the same definition that we use for the multi-class. We have a set of class posterior probabilities given by the classifier for our sample. So now we explicit that these were output by the classifier R.

And then we need to decide the class to which assigned the sample. We have two possibilities. We can assign the samples to the true class, or we can assign the sample to the false class. Now, let's compute the cost of these two actions according to the classifier probability. Remember, the classifier believes that there is a certain probability that this is true. So, he must decide based on what he believes should be the class for the sample, which is not necessarily the real class for the sample. But based on the information that he has, he will try to make the optimal decision. so if we decide to say the sample is true what happens that there is according to the recognizer itself a certain probability that the sample is false so the recognizer says i believe

that there is for example 70 probability that the sample is true so there will be a 0.3 probability that the sample is false so if i label us through my expected cost will have a contribution from the the fact that the class may be false equal to the cost of a false positive false positive i labeled as true but it was actually false times the probability of that happening while if it labels are true it's correct the cost of correct we set is zero so i would have a contribution of zero times the probability of being correct in this case so the cost that i expect to pay for assigning class true is the probability that the sample is from the other class times the cost of an error i label us through when i should have said false so i have some probability that i believe the

the point will label belong to the false class. And in that case, I will make an error, so I will pay this cost. And we can compute the same for the false class. If you assign false, then with a certain probability, according to the recognizer, the class will belong to the class true. And in that case, I will pay a cost false negative. Why? If the point, if I assign false and the point belongs to false, pay zero and this according to the recognizer there is a probability of happening equal to the posterior probability of the false class so according to the recognizer this is the cost of

assigning class label false now which is the optimal decision we compare these two and we take the label that has lower cost. So if the cost of assigning sample X to class T according to R is lower than the cost, the expected cost of assigning class false to the same sample, then we will label the sample as true. Otherwise, we will label it as false. And as we said, when we didn't consider costs, if they are the same then we can label any we can give any label true or false within some other criterion so we can just decide everything is true for example because from the point of view of the biased decisions there will be no difference on the expected cost that i will have for my classifier so this is the criterion to label the class in the binary problem it's just the application

of the optimal decision from K classes to binary. Now, let's rewrite this. So, you have it here explicitly. When this cost, notice that the cost of labeling true involves the probability of false, and the cost of labeling false involves the probability of true, because that's the probability of being wrong, essentially. So, if the cost of labeling true is lower than the cost of labeling false I will assign class true otherwise I will assign class false now again we can represent it how well essentially we can again consider a ratio if this used operation all these terms are positive So we can consider the ratio of probability of true times cost of force negative divided probability of false times cost of force positive, what's on the left and on the right.

Now, if this is greater than one, the first cost is larger.

So I will assign,

give this an error, I think, it should be the opposite.

If the cost of assigning true is great, sorry, no, it's correct, because this is the cost of assigning false. No, sorry. This is the costs of assigning, the expected costs of assigning false is greater than the expected costs of assigning true, I will assign false. If it's lower, I will assign true. So if this is larger than this, I will assign true. So if the ratio is greater than one, I will assign true. If the ratio is lower than one, I will assign zero. If I take the logarithm, I don't compare the ratio with one, but I compare the log ratio with zero. If the logarithm of this ratio is greater than zero, I will assign class true, otherwise I will assign class false.

Which means that we can now see figures this see how this is related to the classifier output for a generative classifier for a generative classifier this probability of true given x is equal to the class condition for the true class times the prior divided the marginal and the same below here the probability of false given x is class conditional times prior divided marginal again the marginal is the same so it would simplify in the ratio so what remains is the ratio between these two terms so r corresponds to the logarithm of what the prior times the conditional for true prior for true class conditional for true divided prior for false times class conditional for false and then the other two

terms are the cost that we had already in the ratio which means what

is the probability of thus true we need to compare this with zero so let's now Now, divides the ration two terms, this part and this part. It's a logarithm of the product, so it becomes the sum of the logarithm. So, comparing R with zero means that we compare this term with minus the logarithm of the other term. Essentially, when we compare this with zero, we can write this as a sum of two logarithms, bring the first logarithm on the other side of the inequality, and it becomes minus the same term. But this is what? This is the log-like ratio for the sample X. And this is a ratio that now depends on not just the prior probability, but also the cost of errors. It depends on the cost of errors through the ratio.

So what matters is the relative cost of the errors. So we can, again, make optimal decisions for an application which has a prior pi for the true class and the cost of false negative and cost of false positive given by these two values by writing the classification as comparing a log-like ratio that, again, represents the recognizer output. So the recognizer will give this, and information that depends on the application. We discussed why the prior is application dependent. I hope that it's clear that the cost of the errors are even more application dependent. Whoever tells you what's the task needs to decide what he believes are the cost for the errors. estimating the cost of the errors we are outside what we would do for the

machine learning course deciding whether to treat a patient that is not ill or not treat a patient that is ill as a cost that cost is not defined by whoever builds the machine learning algorithm but by the people who needs to take decisions on how much they wait having the two possible kind of errors so So that's something that for us is a specification of the problem. It's not something that we will estimate. Whoever needs to use your classifier needs to decide how much he weighs the cost of the possible errors that we can make. And that's typically not something that is related to the technicalities of the model, but to the task that I want to solve. And it may not even depend on, it may depend on other things, like even political things.

For example, how much you decide that it costs to not treat, to have a patient who is ill, and you don't treat him because you're not sure whether he's ill or not, and he dies, that's a cost that is not up to us to make, but whoever makes laws to decide at which level the cost is considered which is the cause they would consider acceptable for that kind of error so we take these as parameters that are given whoever builds who wants to use our classifier if he wants to make optimal decisions he needs to decide what are the costs that we will put the relative cost for the different errors that you can add once we have these again we have disentangled the output of the recognizer that depends only on the distribution of the samples

inside the class and application dependent parameters that describe the relative proportion of the classes if we want to give a frequentist interpretation to this prior or in in general, prior information we may have about a sample for the task that we are considering, and information that, again, is application dependent, it's the cost of the different errors that we may have in our classifier,

from our classifier. And again, we cast the problem as computing the score, the log-like ratio, and compare it with a threshold that depends on the application data. Now, again, we are representing, in this sense, an application with three values. prior probability for a binary task we have the prior probability for true the cost of false negative and the cost of false positive but as you can see

the threshold depends only on relative value or relative values of these three parameters we can actually show that these are redundant in the sense that we can parameterize an application with a single value that will give us the same threshold how again we take what we defined for the bias risk as effective prior if we compute the effective prior for the application that we have considered we will see that if we represent the original application in terms of

effective prior and equivalent cost of errors that are equal to one the threshold that depends on these three values would be the same as the threshold that depends on the original application values that is the effective prior combined with equal costs represents the same application, in which sense it gives us exactly the same decisions. So if we have an application for which we define the prior and the cost of errors, and then we have the second application in which the prior is equal to the effective prior and the cost of errors are one, the decision we would make for these two applications would be the same. Why? Essentially, because... the threshold that we would get for the second application would be exactly the threshold that you would have for the original application.

So, the log-like ratio would be cut at the same point, so the decision that we would make would be the same. Which means, then, that from the point of view of making decisions, we can say that these two applications are equivalent. equivalent we would make exactly the same optimal decisions for both of them this combined with the fact that normalized dcf for these two applications would be the same as well allows us to say that we for binary problem we can parameterize all the tasks as long as we work in this bias risk framework in a way that depends only on a single parameter the effective prior which condense information on the prior class probability and the cost of the two errors this we will see is

useful not because it's not really useful because we can't parameter it allows us to make computations easier it's not but well we will see that it is but marginally but the good thing with this is that we will see this allows us to see how the performance of our model change for a binary application by plotting curves that depend on a single parameter that is we can represent all applications in terms of a single value and changing this value we can see how the performance of the classifier would change for different applications remember that all the applications that are binary that we can represent with this triplet can also be represented with an effective prior so by looking at how the effective prior changes we will be able to evaluate how the

performance of the model change as we move from one application to the other so it's useful because it allows us to represent the decisions and the cost in terms of a single number which means that we can plot how the cost would change as a function of that number we could do the same as a function of the original triplet but now we would have to do a plot which has three axes that may change the prior and the two costs and then a fourth axis that represents how this would affect the bias risk so this would be much more difficult to visualize the fact that we can represent application with a single number gives us a way to actually measure visualize what happens when we move from one application to the other we will also see that well it also allows us to preserve

the framework that we have used up to now to make decisions we will again work by comparing a log regular ratio with a threshold that depends on prior information but now rather than using the application prior pi t we will use the application prior pi tilde that is a function of the original data of the cost of the errors in the original prior probabilities notice that if we use we represent the application in terms of pi tilde we have uniform cost of errors so making decisions becomes the same thing that we have done up to now so what we did before with just the prior probability of the class and implicitly we assume that the cost of errors were one can now be used to make decision for non-uniform cost of errors by doing what well from here we were able to

compute the log-like ratio and compare it with prior logos now if we have

a different application we can compute its effective prior and then compare the score with the prior logos of the effective prior. So we can, again, consider, rather than working with the triplet prior and cost of errors, we can work, again, with a new application where we assume that the prior probability is pi tilde. Notice that now this is not the frequency which we will observe the classes in the evaluation set. This is the frequency with which, if I were to have an application data that tests those frequencies and the cost of errors were assumed to be equal, there would be equivalence to the application that I want to address. So, it's effective in the sense that it represents an equivalent application.

But, once we have defined the equivalence, we can think of our application as saving exactly this prior and uniform cost. So now we can use whatever we built up to now, just with the prior pi tilde in place of the application prior that we were using up to now. So essentially this means that, for example, whatever you did in the laboratory for binary problems, we can now keep exactly the same structure, but rather in using the application prior pi t to compute decisions, we would use the effective prior pi tilde. We would not need to change anything in the rest of the code. And when we evaluate, again, we can concentrate on evaluating in terms of a prior assuming fixed cost, because for binary problems, we can always represent non-uniform costs in terms of a different but equivalent application,

which has a different prior, but again, the costs are uniform.

Now, let me see. Let me skip this for a moment.

Now, this works well for binary. For multiglass, we will not see something even, because for multiglass, we cannot, we can show that there are, that also the multiglass is overparameterized, but reducing the parametrization doesn't give us any additional insight on what's going on. So for multiglass, we can't represent everything with a single number or with a single set of equivalent priors. Because the cost, the independent values are not just two costs, but there is a full matrix of costs that may differ from class to class. So for multiglass, we cannot do the same procedure. so for multicast we will stick with the bias decision made by explicitly considering the matrix of costs and the prior probabilities of the class

but for multicast we we accept that we are not able to do

to summarize everything with a single number so we are not able to summarize everything in a way that as we will see allows us to visualize well what's going on inside our model okay questions up to here okay so we have seen why log likelihood ratios are important because if we are able to cast our task as computing log likelihood ratios then we can compare them with a threshold that depends on application data only so we can defer choosing the threshold once we know the application so we can develop our system the system will output log likelihood ratios and then we can adapt this application this model to different applications just by changing the threshold which we cut now this typically is good because it allows us to separate the training of the model

and the scoring of the model with making the decision so the decisions will depend on something that depends only on the samples and then another term that depends only on the application now and we have said that the threshold here is the logarithmic the bias the optimal bias decision framework allows us also to choose what is an optimal threshold problem is that we define optimal when we define optimal we said that the threshold is optimal in the sense that it minimizes the expected cost from the point of view of the recognizer, and we said if the recognizer and the evaluator who knows the real data distribution, the real world distribution for the data, agree, then the optimal bias decision from the point of view of the recognizer

minimizes also the empirical bias risk. Unfortunately, this does not always happen. Why? Well, if we have mismatch between training and test, we may have a model that describes very well the training population, but if the test population is different, those densities will not reflect the evaluator model for the evaluator knowledge of the data distribution. if the model assumption are inaccurate. If the model assumption are inaccurate, the model does not describe well the training data either, so we can't expect that it will describe well. We will approximate well the evaluator knowledge on the distribution of the application, the real data. and then there are models in which the score is not even a log-like ratio so it cannot be interpreted

as a log-like ratio so it doesn't make even sense to even it doesn't make sense to even try to use the threshold that we have defined the threshold that works well when the classifier is accurate and there is agreement between training and test population

now in these cases we say when this happens when there is not this match the original the theoretical threshold that they find depends only on prior information does not necessarily provides decision that would minimize what well they would our goal is to minimize the empirical bias risk not to minimize the expectation the expected cost from the point of view of the classifier that's the best we can do when we classify but our final goal when we use the model would be to have the minimum as for to minimize as much as possible the empirical bias risk to To minimize the empirical bias risk, we can work on two terms. How we compute the score, and that involves training the model. But, and we said if the model is a probabilistic model that reflects well the distribution of the data,

then we typically can use the theoretical stration, and that would be good enough. But in other cases, we said this is not possible because there are issues when using that threshold. So the second way we could improve our classifier would be using a different threshold. Remember that the threshold is defined to make the decision optimal from the point of view of the recognizer knowledge. But what we would like to do is to minimize the empirical bias risk. And we're seeing that changing the threshold changes the force negative and force positive rates, which means that we will change the empirical prior distribution. What does it mean? It means that if we are using a classifier that is well calibrated,

that is, a classifier whose scores can be interpreted as log-like ratio that reflect an agreement within the recognizer and the application population, then we can do what? We can use the theoretical threshold, and that solves the issue. When this is not the case, we say that our recognizer produces scores that are not calibrated, and in that case we need to figure out how to improve the threshold. That is, for models that are not well calibrated, we have two sorts of errors. The classifier, the intrinsic errors due to the characteristics of the classifier, and the choice of the threshold. Now, we can measure how this affects the performance of our model by introducing a new matrix that we called minimum cost.

This is what? Well, we have said that we make decisions comparing a score for a test sample with a threshold. And we said that changing the threshold will change the false positive and false negative rate for the dataset. So when we evaluate the empirical risk for a dataset, what do we do? We take all the samples.

We compute the scores. We compare each of these with a threshold T, the same for all the scores. This will give us some predicted labels, and then we count false positive rates and false negative rates using those predicted labels, and then from that we can compute for our application. So from this combined with the labels of the dataset, we compute false positive rate and false negative rate. then we combine this with the application prior we get the bias risk or DCF for binary problem. And if the model is well calibrated here we will use the same application prior the stretcher that depends on that application prior and that will give for this application results that are close to optimal.

How can we see whether our model is well calibrated for this application? Well, for a binary problem, we can measure how much we are losing because we use that threshold rather than a threshold that would be optimal for the evaluation set. So what can we do? We can, again, for our evaluation set, the one where we are evaluating the performance, we can compute the score for each sample. and then for every possible threshold t we can repeat so we repeat this for all thresholds we compare with t we get predictions and from prediction we compute the CF for the product the application that you are considering and then we repeat this well in theory for all possible values of the threshold so for all threshold in r we will see that we don't need to consider all possible values the number

of values that we need to consider is actually limited but for all possible values we can see how what would be the bias cost if i were using this t in place of the optimal one this gives me a value and then i take the minimum over t of this dcf that is now a function of t because since i change t here every time my dcf is a function of the threshold so we can compute we will call actual dcf or just dcf the dcf computed with the threshold depends on the prior probability of the application and computed with the application prior. And we will call min DCF, minimum DCF, the minimum over all possible thresholds of the DCF obtained cutting at the threshold T the scores rather than at the threshold that was given by,

that would give me optimal bias decision if the classifier was outputting well-calibrated log-like operations. Now, if the classifier is well-calibrated, these two would agree. So for a well-calibrated classifier, this would be the same, or in practice they would be very close because you will never get exactly the same value in practice, but this would be very close for a well-calibrated system. For a system that is not well calibrated for that application, because calibration is actually, for the moment we are talking about calibration for an application, these two would disagree. And how would they disagree? Well, the minimum DCF would be lower than the actual, because the minimum is obtained by optimizing the threshold.

So we are selecting the best threshold on the evaluation set as if we knew the labels of the evaluation set. Notice that this is a lower bound on the cost. In real applications, we will never be able to select the optimal threshold for the application data because we don't know the labels of the application data. But here we are trying to figure out if we knew the label of the application data, so the evaluation set labels, and we were to select the optimal threshold for our evaluation data, how much would be the cost? For well-calibrated systems, the cost would be very close to the actual cost that we defined before the detection cost function, or if you prefer, the normalized empirical bias risk,

which is the same thing for binary problems. For models that are not well-classified, what happens? that when we use the theoretical threshold, this is what we will pay, but we can separate these costs into what? We have that the actual cost will be the mean cost plus some delta. This reflects the cost that we would have if we were to use the recognizer and we would optimize the threshold. So keeping the recognizer fixed, the output of the recognizer are the same, but we are allow ourselves to optimize the threshold and this is the data that we pay because we are using a suboptimal threshold so we split the capability of the recognizer to discriminate classes this depends on how well the recognizer can discriminate classes

while the other term reflects how much we lose because we select the wrong threshold. What does it mean? Imagine you have a binary problem and a linear classifier. A linear classifier is a classifier that we have said computes a score and compares it with a threshold, which corresponds to taking a plane that is orthogonal to W. We have seen that changing the threshold changes which of these family of hyperplanes we select. So the minimum DCF represents what? Represents the cost that we would have if we were to keep W, so keep the direction of the separation rule, and allow ourselves to move the separation rule in the position that is optimal according to the application prior probability. The delta represents what?

How much will lose because we are using a given hyperplane rather than the optimal one among all the families defined by our recognizer. So the recognizer defines a family of separation rules, which is obtained by changing the threshold. The minimum DCF defines how good this family is if we were to select the optimal among that family for the evaluation set. The actual DCF is how much we pay because we actually use one of those defined by the application in prior information. So, the application prior information defines the threshold. the threshold defines which hyperplane among the family of possible options we select the minimum detection cost measures how good is this family globally if we were to choose the

optimal inside that family notice that inside the family we are not allowed to change for example the orientation of the hyperplane among the family defined by the recognizer what is the optimal if we allow ourselves to choose the threshold and the data measures how much more we lose because our choice of the threshold is not necessarily optimal

okay questions up to here

now when this this allows us to understand whether the recognizer gives us scores that we can save safely threshold with theoretical threshold, or if we have a large cost due to this phenomenon, that we are able to find a classifier that gives family of separating surfaces that are good, but we are not able to select among this family one that is optimal for our application. And typically when applications are unbalanced, the cost due to choosing the wrong threshold may be relevant.

So we will need, in that case, to address the problem. How to address the problem is something that we will see at the end of the course. But know that there is this problem. So for binary tasks, it makes sense to compute the actual DCF, assuming that the recognizer gives us like your ratios as solutions when the classifier gives us values that are they do not represent well calibrated like your ratio we may be paying a much higher cost because we are using a wrong threshold and what we could pay if we were to select a good threshold so if the scores of the uh classifier calibrated we don't need to do anything anymore if they are not probably would like to do something to improve our selection of the threshold that essentially

consists in two possible strategies one forget about optimal thresholds and use a validation set to select a good threshold for the specific application that you want to consider or find a way to take the score of the classifier and map them to well calibrated log-like relation so transform the scores so that the transform scores behave like well are well calibrated so that we can again go back and use the theoretical optimal translation what is the the main difference between these two the first one is easy to understand we treat the we forget about bias decision we treat the threshold as a hyper parameter that we want to optimize so forget about everything we said we have a score to compare with a threshold we need to select

the threshold what can we do use a validation set to select the threshold that is optimal for the validation set. What is the threshold that is optimal for the validation set? Well, we have said that the minimum DCF measures probing all possible threshold, the threshold that gives me the optimum, the minimum of the bias error cost, of the bias cost. We can compute minimum DCF for the validation set, extract the threshold that corresponds to this minimum detection cost, and take data stretch that we use for application data. In this case, we can forget about optimal bias decision and about calibration. Problem, we will need to repeat this process for every possible application that we will need to consider.

So a better way is to find a general transformation that transforms our scores in a way that they are again well calibrated after this transformation typically what I will have is a model for which I can use the theoretical threshold that we defined before for several applications and still have actual costs that are close to minimum costs again if we have time we will see some of these at the end of course what we will do for the moment when needed if needed we will use a validation set to select an optimal application threshold for a given application but again this is not necessarily the best course of action because to select the optimal iteration for a given application would require us to go back to our validation set every time we want to change our application so

if we need to select the threshold t in a way that is application dependent using a validation set every time we change the application prior we would need to go back to our validation set and compute minimum detection cost for the given application

so minimum dcf helps us in addressing this calibration issue and starts in two ways one it allows us to measure the discrepancy between the cost that i would have if i were to select the optimal threshold on the evaluation set and the cost that i'm actually paying if i use optimal bias decision threshold as we have defined and again since we have seen this for binary problem we can work with effective prior imagine that i always parameterize an application just by the prior alone because we we know that if we want to introduce cost of errors we can do that by changing the prior so we don't need to consider for binary problems explicitly the two costs anymore we know that if we have an application with some prior and some costs

rather than working with this application we work with the equivalent application that is obtained by replacing the prior by the effective prior so we don't we can always think in terms of just prior because we can incorporate the effects of the cost of the arrows inside the prior of the application.

So, for well calibrated systems, I would use the threshold that corresponds to the optimal prior. Minimum DCF allows me to see how much I lose because my system may not be well calibrated. So, if I use the threshold that I would use for well calibrated scores with the scores of my system, I will have some DCF. How? Again, this means that I will take my samples, I will score all of them. i will compare each of these with the threshold defending on the application prior now it's with tilde to remember that it's effective prior before i was not putting the tilde but it's the same if you want i can remove the tilde also here know that this may not be just a prior it may be an effective prior but it doesn't change anything about what we say

then this will give us a prediction for each sample and then from these predictions i can compute the confusion matrix remember the confusion matrix i just take sorry i take the corresponding labels and from this i can compute the confusion matrix i compute how many times is l1 and i predicted one how many times it's l2 and i predicted one how many times it's l1 and i predicted two and so on and we have seen last time from the confusion matrix we can compute the dcf because from the confusion matrix we can compute false positive rate and false negative rates these do not depend on the application so let's analyze them like this then i can take the same pie that i was using for for the threshold here, combine it with these false positive rates

and false negative rates, and compute the normalized cost using the expression that we have seen. We have seen that the normalized cost can be defined in terms of false positive rates, false negative rates, and effective prior. Once we have these three, we have the expression for the cost, we plug the different values, and we get the normalized cost. Remember, the bias cost, the normalized bias cost as this expression. This is the bias cost that now we would compute as just this because we use the effective prior, so we can actually forget about the cost of errors. If we use the effective prior, the costs are considered one because we incorporated them in the prior. so we just need to compute this term

normalization term minimum between pi tilde and 1 minus pi tilde because if you use the effective prior the equivalent cost of errors is 1 so we plug in the false positive rate the false negative rate the effective prior and we have computed our DCF and min DCF does what?

for me in the CF we would do the following we start with the samples compute the scores and then the words well for T 1 T 2 T 3 imagine taking T in a set actually take three as all possible values on the real line then we see that we will not need to consider all of them but compare it with t1

computes prediction

that depend on t1 in this case let's make this dependent on t so this was dependent on t pi the threshold of the application here it depends on the t1 that i'm probing now from this again i combine with the labels to compute the confusion matrix from this i compute false positive rate and false negative rate i combine them with the application prior now here i use the application prior by t let's put this let's put this everywhere so we remember that it's the effective one application prior by till that gives me ah the cf here the cf was a function of the threshold corresponding to pi tilde and the application pi tilde here is a function of the threshold corresponding to t1 and the application that I mentioned in the detection

cost for is pi tilde so this pi tilde is the value that I would put in the expression for the DCF but since the false positive and false negative rate depends on the threshold the function is depending is depends on the threshold as well through the false positive and false negative rate so here i have also this is a function of pi tilde and a function of pi tilde also the false negative rate so these two are a function of pi tilde through the threshold so the dcf is a function through the threshold of pi tilde in this case twice because i was using pi tilde for the threshold and the second pi tilde is the one that i'm using in the dcf definition here is the fan depending on the application prior because i'm computing the cf for that application

and it depends on the threshold t1 if i now repeat the same process with t2 what would i get at the cf that depends on threshold t to one pi tilde i repeat for t3 i get this i repeat this I repeat this for all possible values of T. I get how the DCF would change if I change the threshold. Now take the minimum over T that's considering the best threshold. Notice that if this is the set of scores, if i sort the scores so this i take the scores and i sort them so when i write s1 it's not s of x1 but let's imagine that these are the sorted values of the scores you can put the scores on a real line to sort them we don't need to try all possible values of t in the real line we just is to probe a value that is lower than all the scores and then one value inside each interval

and one value that is higher than all the scores why because between these two scores any threshold will give me the same decision for let's say that this is s i and this is sj and there are no scores between s i and s j any threshold that is between s i and s j will give me the same decisions because all the values from SI to the left will be classified as class zero and everything on the right will be classified as class one. It doesn't matter the actual value that I use for the threshold inside this interval. So actually, the number of values that I need to probe is not infinite. It's equal to the number of scores plus one. If I probe one value of the threshold that is lower than all the scores

and then one value that is inside each interval, between two consecutive scores and one value that is larger than all the scores, I actually get all the distinct values that the DCF can have. Any other value of the threshold will give me one of those outputs. Why? Again, because if I... Let's zoom this. If I have that these are the scores of my set in any order, trying this threshold will assign class zero in the in class one in this way trying this threshold would assign exactly the same predictions same predictions mean same false positive and false negative race so from the point of view of the DCF these two thresholds on this evaluation set would give me the same DCF so I need to probe only one of those I need to try only one of those

So I will repeat all this process for all the thresholds that may interest me, which essentially is equivalent to covering all possible values of the threshold. That is optimizing the threshold where on the evaluation set. So, this is a biased result. This does not represent a cost that I will have for application data, because when I apply my model, I will not be able to optimize the threshold on application data. But this is the optimal threshold, the optimal DCF for the evaluation set. So, if I need to choose a threshold, when there is disagreement within these two, it means that I have miscalibration. How can I solve the problem? First solution, forget about the theoretical threshold, then let's try to use a threshold that is good for my application data.

How? Well, treat the threshold as a hyperparameter. If we treat the threshold as a hyperparameter, we now have a problem where we have what? A set of scores and a threshold T. Notice that T cannot be estimated on the same data that we use to train the recognizer. Why? Because typically the dynamic of the scores for the data that the recognizer has seen is different from the dynamics of scores of samples that the recognizer has not seen. Why? Because the recognizer will tend to overfit the training data. So the scores that we will get for the training samples themselves will typically not reflect the distribution of the scores for application data. So this will need to be estimated on data that is different from the one used to learn the recognizer.

Remember that this score is always a function of a classifier. So we need to use a validation set that we would call calibration set in this case to estimate T. how can we estimate t on the calibration set well on the calibration set we can compute minimum DCF it's a biased value it's true but it gives us the the minimum of the bias risk that we can have on the validation set as a function of the threshold of course for a given application And then we select the threshold that corresponds to the minimum of the DCF. Hyperparameter tuning. We want to minimize the cost on the evaluation set as a function on the threshold. We use a validation set. On the validation set, we choose the hyperparameter that minimizes our objective.

Our objective is the DCF as a function of the threshold on some data set. So we minimize it on the validation set, and then we select the minimizer of the threshold on the validation set that we will use in place of the theoretical threshold. So instead of using T of pi, we'll use this T star. It is, of course, a function of the application, because we are minimizing the DCF for a given application. But it's estimated through a validation set. So, one more way to solve the problem is, if we can't rely on the theoretical threshold because the scores are not well calibrated, there is a big mismatch between minimum and actual DCF for our recognizer, then we use a validation set to change the threshold for our application so we take a validation set

so now call this validation we repeat all this process on the validation set for the application that we want to optimize and we select not just the value of the dcf but also the threshold at which we obtained the minimum of the value. And then we use that threshold as a threshold for the application data.

The second approach that we will not see now, we will maybe see if we have time at the end of the course is to take again, a calibration set, but rather than estimating a threshold

But rather than estimating a threshold by cross-validation, by not cross-validation, yes, you can call it cross-validation, but by cross-validation, by estimating the threshold, this is optimal on validation set for a given application by Tilda.

This is the first step. Find the threshold that is optimal on the validation set for Phi tilde for the scores of the recognizer S, given the output of the recognizer. The second, that we will not see now, is find a function such that from the scores to scores, such that when I apply this function to the scores of the recognizer, this gives me scores that are well calibrated. so find a mapping of the scores to a new set of scores such that this new set of scores is well calibrated maybe not on all possible applications but at least on a large range of possible applications what is the advantage here whenever we change the application we need to go back and find threshold t. So we lose the possibility of disentangling the training stage

from the evaluation, from the application stage. So to beat the good classifier, we need to know in advance the application because we need to know the application prior so that we can estimate a good threshold. In the other way, the goal is to find a single transformation that works well for many applications, ideally for all, but for all it's probably not going to be possible, but at least for a large number of applications, at least for all those that may be interested in, in such a way that we can compute the transform scores and then plug in the application prior only at the end. And if the function is built in a reasonable way, it will give us calibrated scores so that using the threshold that depends on the application

would work for a large set of applications there will be several applications so several a large range of

prior logos for example a large set of prior logos that's for which the minimum cost will be close to the actual cost and we don't need to know in advance which is the application as long as it's in the set for which our function provides well calibrated scores we see that typically it's It's not possible to have something that works with what gives you well calibrated scores everywhere, but being able to have well calibrated scores for a large range of applications is something that is more desirable because we can, again, lift the problem of plugging in the application only at the end without having to go back to some data and to some training to estimate the optimal threshold for an application.

So we can say something where you just plug application prior, you don't need to go back to some data to estimate the optimal threshold anymore.

How to do this? Well, that's another matter. So we are not going to see it now.

Okay, questions up to here. Okay, finally, we have seen that we can compute a DCF. The DCF, the bias calls for binary problems, is a function of the application prior.

Which function? well let's assume that we have made our decisions somehow so we have well let's assume we have we use we treat the scores as if they were well calibrated scores then we have seen that the actual cost is a function of the application through what the threshold used to map the scores to decisions and And the prior information is used to compute the bias cost. So the prior information appears twice here. But it's always the same prior. For the mean DCF, we have that the mean DCF is a function of what? It's the minimum over T of the DCF computed as T for the application pi tilde. So it's a function of the application as well. Now, we have said before that parametrizing application with a single value allows us to see how a model, the model performance change as we change the application.

How? We can visualize what are called biased error plots. These are plots that give us, as a function of the application, the actual or the minimum cost. The actual cost, the application appears twice when making the decisions and they're computing the biased cost. In minimum costs, it appears once because you are optimizing the threshold.

Now, what do we see in this plot? Well, we can see how changing the application. So, here, when we change by tilde, we will change the value of the DCF. Here, when we change by tilde, we will change the value of the DCF. So, imagine trying different values of pi tilde and plotting how the costs change. Again, we don't use a plot with pi between 0 and 1 because they will give us...

Well, because typically that's not the way we parametrize the worst ratio. So, we use a plot where we use the same transformation that reflects the threshold of the decision. So, rather than plotting on the x-axis pi, we put on the x-axis the prior log odds, which is minus the threshold. But apart from the fact that here we have just a non-linear transformation of the axis that represents the prior, this is still on the x-axis where you have the prior information. information so if i give you a value on the x on the x axis the prior is obtained by solving for if i give you a value x here solving this in terms of pi gives me the corresponding prior so as a function of the prior represented in terms of prior logos how the cost of the two

how the two costs change

The value of zero here represents an application that is balanced, so the cost of errors, well, the cost of the prior probability for the two classes is the same. Remember, this is the effective prior, so it may mean that really the prior probability of the two classes is the same and the costs are the same, or the prior probabilities of the classes are different, but the costs are also different. The effective equivalent application would be an application that has the same prior probabilities. and we can see for different applications how the two costs will change so for example here an application which has by tilde that is zero zero point five would correspond to what well would correspond to

would correspond to a minimum DCF of 0.3 and an actual cost of 0.4. So if we were to use our recognizer for this application, we would pay a normalized cost of 0.4. Remember, it's normalized. So one is the cost of using just prior information, not using the classifier. So we pay just 40% of the cost, but you can see that the cost we pay, one-fourth of the total cost is just because we are using the wrong threshold. So of this cost, one-fourth is not due to the classifier being unable to give us good scores. It's due to the fact that here we are using a bad threshold for our scores. So, here you can imagine that finding a way to reduce this cost would give us a big benefit. Just by adapting the threshold, we pay one-fourth less if you are able to choose the threshold.

Then we can see that there is a region here where minimum and actual costs are similar, which means that in this region the classifier gives us scores that behave well. In that region, if I were to use the theoretical threshold, I would get optimal costs. And then there is, again, there are two regions where the cost, normalized costs, are much larger. Here we even pay almost twice because we are selecting the wrong threshold. So for an application where the prior is... Probably here is something around 0.8 for one class and 0.2 for the other.

We, just for the fact that we select the bed ratio, we are paying much more.

This is how the same plot will look for a well-calibrated system. For a well-calibrated system, we would observe that for a wide range of applications, the two plots would agree so we pay some costs because we use our recognizer but every time we are selecting whatever is the application so as a function of the application we are selecting a good threshold so we're cutting our scores in a good point so we are not losing due to the fact that we use a bad threshold so this tells us that allows us to see how as a function of the threshold we have these two costs this change and it allows us to see if for applications of interest there is a big gap in how we select the thresholds or not so whether we need

to do something about calibration or not it also allows us if we were to plot the dcf for different systems to evaluate the relative performance of different systems imagine this is recognizer one and this is recognizer two actual dcf this would allows us to see how things would change for different ratios it may very well happen that you may have that one recognizer works well for some set of applications and another recognizer works well let's use colors so that we can distinguish this r2 and r1 it may turn out that for some applications one recognizer is better from other applications another recognizer is better being better on words for one classifier is not just a characteristic of the classifier it depends the application i'm measuring

i'm applying my classifier on so if i need to select between using r1 or r2 i need to see in which conditions i will have to i will want to use those two i may even decide for some application i will use r1 and from other application i will use classifier r2 because the applications where r1 is better and the application where r2 is better so this allow us to compare on a range of different applications visually how the performance would change in terms of minimum inductive cost if we are interested about calibration or if we want to compare different recognizers in terms of the relative performance. It makes also sense to compare minimum DCF of recognizers. This compares what? How good a recognizer would be

assuming that I can solve the problem of selecting the threshold afterwards. which, if I can, is a way to see whether a recognizer has higher potential than the other. You may very well have that if you were to measure in terms of actual DCF, this would be the relative performance of two recognizers. But maybe in terms of minimum DCF, you have the opposite. In terms of minimum DCF, R1 was well calibrated, so it stays there. sorry f2 was well calibrated so it stays there r1 was not well well calibrated so actually r1 once you calibrate it works would work much better than r2 which means r1 the blue one is a better system if i can solve the problem of calibrating the scores if i cannot then i would

use the red one but probably i will be able to solve the problem of calibrating the scores since we introduce that it's doable. So this allows me to select on which classifier to focus, knowing that that's not the cost that I will have, because for R2, I get not calibrated scores, but assuming that I will be able to solve this issue in a later stage of my system. So minimum DCF can also be used to compare classifiers when I want to see what is the potential of each classifier, assuming that selecting the threshold will not introduce, will be something that I'm able to do in a reasonable way that will not introduce a cost, a high cost due to, a potentially high cost due to a bad selection of the threshold.

Another thing that I wanted to say. Ah, yes. Finally, for normalized DCF, I will not prove it, but you see this V-like shape. That's the expected behavior. The prior zero is actually the point in which the DCF, the normalized DCF finds its minimum. What does it mean? That it doesn't make sense to compare the cost on different applications, because these are normalized for different applications, but the plot of these curves should have the spike in zero, otherwise you're doing something wrong also for minimum dcf since i'm able to optimize the threshold the minimum dcf cannot or cannot ever go beyond one while the actual dcf can increase above one remember actual cost i may have a classifier that was worse than making the using only prior

information the minimum dcf cannot be larger than one why because remember that the dummy system was either labeling everything as zero or labeling everything as one labeling everything as zero would mean to select a threshold that is lower than the score for all samples labeling everything as zero means that corresponds to selecting us a special that is larger than the scores of all samples but when i'm optimizing for the threshold if i'm considering these two cases as well so the minimum dcf will consider also implicitly the cost of labeling everything as zero or labeling everything as one and since i'm taking the minimum cost the minimum cost cannot be larger than the lower of these two so the normalized minimum dcf cannot be larger than one if it's larger than one

there is a bug in the code while the actual dcf can very well go above one

what does it mean actually cf above one means that our system is giving us a cost that is higher than what we would have if we were to use prior information alone

okay

okay i think we can stop here for this part and if you have questions no okay so this is all for this part okay let's start again so we have seen how to evaluate models we have seen how to make optimal decisions we have seen for binary problems how to specialize these for multi-class it's a bit more hard because for multi-class it's harder to separate what is the contribution due to poor calibration of the system because it's more difficult to separate the calibration part miscalibration part from the recordizer potentiality so we will not do that for multiclass because it's much harder to even define what we mean by to define an equivalent of the minimum dcf for a multiclass problem so for the multiclass we will not have this disentanglement we will use it for binary

for multi-class we will just have the definitions that we gave for bias risk and for decision making of course it may be necessary to adopt how we make decisions also for multi-class tasks we may say a couple of words about this at the end of the course Now, having closed this parenthesis on evaluation, let's go back to discuss about classification model. The second model that we see for classification, well, the third, if you want to count LDA, but we've seen that LDA is just a sub, it's just something that is very closely related to the Gaussian model. model, the second model that we see is a discriminative probabilistic model. So, we have seen a generative model. We have seen that generative models in general estimate densities of the samples inside each

class. We now move to a discriminative model. Discriminative models try to describe directly the relationship between class and features in terms of cross posterior probabilities as a function of the sample now the name is called logistic regression but this is actually a classification model a classification model that tries to build the model for the probability that the class is small c when the sample is x this we will see will be a function is called not f because this is not a density so to avoid confusion this will be some function of x and the class C so something that when we plug the class that we want to compute the probability for in the samples sample gives us a way to compute class posterior

Notice that for generative models, we have seen that we can compute class posterior probability in this way. So, we can also represent generative models as models that, given the class, given the sample and the class that we are making the hypothesis for, compute the class posterior probability as a function of the class and the sample. So the way we use generative models were just a way to find this function that maps the sample to class posterior probabilities. Through what? Through a class conditional density, a prior probability that we will see in the logistic regression model takes a different role. We see that there will be no disentanglement as we had in generative models, so we need to do something about that

in the logistic regression model. But in any case, the logistic regression model aims to define a function h of x and c in a way that describes the class of posterior parabola. We will see that the difference is essentially in the way we represent,

in the way we model the different terms, in the way we represent this function h. Let's go in step. Let's try to introduce a model for the class posterior probability by analogy. Now, here we are making an analogy. I'm not saying, as some of your colleagues write in the exam, and I don't know why, that the logistic regression model is derived from the Gaussian model. It's not. Here we are doing an analogy. So, we are starting looking at how the Gaussian model gets to its decision to see how we can formalize an expression for the class posterior probability. So the problem is we need to figure out an expression for this H that depends on, well, we want to make this a parametric function, so we need to depend on some parameters and on some class.

We need to figure out an expression in a way that allows us also to understand what that expression is representing. So let's start, let's go back to the Gaussian model. And let's consider the simplest of the Gaussian models, the simplest not in terms of simple to understand, but in terms of the model that gives the simplest separation rules. The Tide Gaussian model, which is actually LDA. The Tide Gaussian model, we have seen, allows us to express the log-like ratio as a function. It is linear. is a linear function and a fine function to be more precise of X so it's double transpose X plus C which if we want if W is a vector with components X is our feature vector the type Gaussian model is computing the score how it's taking a weighted sum of the component of the different

features where the weights are given by w so we can see it in two ways w represents a direction orthogonal to the separation plane the score is a linear combination of the attributes of the feature of the values of the different features in our sample x so it's doing a linear combination of the features and then adding some constant C. In the Tide-Goshen model, this W is a function of lambda, mu2, or mu1 and mu0, since the classes here are 1 and 0. And C is also a function of mu1, mu0, and lambda. So these are functions of the generative model. But we'll see that in general, this is the expression for the log-like ratio. And the class log posterior ratio, so the logarithm within the class posteriors,

is obtained by simply adding the prior log odds. So we again have a linear rule. And notice that here, if we use the effective prior, then the classification rule becomes comparing the log posterior odds with zero because the log posterior includes minus this ratio so plus the prior log odds inside the ratio so you see that this term is added to the log likelihood ratio now I compare with zero and therefore classification rules are obtained how well w represents the direction of toggle to the classification rule and the classification rule is the same in the classification hyperplane is the set of samples x such that w transpose x plus b is equal to zero that corresponds to the hyperplane that we are using to separate the points of the two classes

Now, let's do one step further. We have seen how to solve classification in this term, but we never computed explicitly an expression for the class posterior probability. The class posterior probability for class one and class two looks like what? Well, we have...

and this is double transpose x plus let me see if i use b or c b so linear combination of the features plus what we will call a bias term which means what let's take explanation on both sides we have probability of class one given x divided probability of class zero given x is exponential double transpose x plus b let's bring this on the other side so let's remove it from here and let's put it here

now we want an expression for the probability of class one given x we remember that

this is equal to what as a function of the probability of class one given x

If I know the probability of class 1 given x, what is the probability of class 0 given x?

1 minus probability of class 1 given x. So, let's replace it here. We have probability of class 1 given x is equal to exponential of, let's call this S of x. S of X times 1 minus probability of class 1 given X. So, it's equal to S exponential minus exponential of X of X times class 1 given X. Now, let's bring this on the other side. we have probability of class 1 given x times 1 plus exponential of s of x is equal to exponential of s of x. Everything okay?

Nobody died?

Okay. So we can finally solve and say that for our Gaussian model we can say that the probability of class being one according to our tight gaussian model has this expression let's do one more step

as this expression exponential of s of x times exponential of s of x plus one now let's multiply both times by exponential of minus s of x we get 1 divided 1 plus exponential of minus the score so we can finally conclude that the probability of class being 1 given x is equal to 1 divided 1 plus exponential of minus double transpose x plus b or if you prefer we'll call the function 1 divided 1 plus exponential of minus x sigmoid. So, the class, the probability of class in 1 given x is equal to sigmoid of the score. So, sigmoid of W transpose x plus b. So, we have now an explicit expression that depends on W and b. So it depends on model parameters, depends on X, and given the model parameters W and B, gives us the class posterior probability.

And we know that this corresponds to a linear separation rule. Notice that we chose this expression because we said the tight Gauss-Schatz model gives this as separation rule. But in all the development, we never used any information that this was coming from a tight Gaussian model. All the things that we used was this, or even better, this. So we assumed a linear separation rule for our classes. So if we know that we have that our classes are separated by a linear rule, then if we make the swallowing assumption

the log posterior ratio so now this becomes the assumption of our model is a linear function which means that our classification rule takes the form compare this value with zero remember that here we're working with log posterior not with log like the ratios anymore so the comparison here is with zero

this is equivalent to assuming that our classes are separated by a surface that is perpendicular to w the specific surface is the set of points w transpose x plus b and this is the decision rule whatever is on the right will be assigned to class one red whatever is on the other side will be assigned to class zero blue now here before with the tied model with this was the final point of our coming from our assumption in the generative model we assumed a form for the class conditional and that induced a form for the class posterior we assumed a prior probability and that led to selecting the bias remember that the bias contains minus the prior contains the prior log odds inside and we knew that that solution corresponded to a separation rule that is linear whatever is on one

side will be assigned to class 1, and whatever is on the left will be assigned to class 0. But all that corresponds to a class posterior probability for class 1.

It is sigmoid of W transpose X plus B. So, sigmoid of minus the score. Remember that this can be interpreted as a score. Notice that this is a score that has a different meaning from the generative low-glycule ratio score. This is also a score. The higher the value, the more we believe the point belongs to class 1, the lower the value, the more we believe it belongs to class 0. And the ratio that we use for this score is 0 because we already put the prior probabilities inside the score itself. This is again a score, but it's not a log-like ratio. So, pay attention that when we use the word score, the score has different interpretations depending on the model that we are using. So, there is not a single definition of a score.

What we mean by score depends on the model that we are using. Even for the same model, we may introduce different scores, because for the generative model which may decide that our output is this then this will become a score so whenever we say a score we need to define what that score should represent in the generative model with log likelihood ratio it's represented as a log likelihood ratio here the score represents in this context the posterior log odds. So we've seen that if you assume a generative type model, the the score corresponding to posterior log odds take that fall naturally. And we've seen that geometrically that corresponds to separating the classes with this w that is orthogonal to the surface and the separation rule the separation surface is w transpose x

plus b equal to zero now for the discriminative models our goal was let's try to figure out how we can model this as a function of x and c so in the discriminative model we do the opposite approach this that before was our ending point will become our assumption so in the the discriminative model that we analyze now, we assume that the classes can be separated by a linear surface. So, we assume that the separation rule is a linear function. So, we assume that the separation rule is a linear function. So, we have a linear classifier. We are not assuming anything on the distribution of the samples, but we are assuming on the separation surface that should divide the classes. So, this is our starting point, not our end point.

And we assume that this should be interpreted, this score. The score is a linear function. And this, that the separation rule corresponds to the separation surface, corresponds to this equal to zero. And in general, the score represents class posterior log odds. So our assumption is on the separation rule and on the interpretation that we give to that score. The assumption that we make for the model is linear separation. So the classes will be separated by a linear function. How? Through a score that is a fine function of x. So, the score is defined as W transpose X plus B. The separation surface is score of X equal to 0. So, the samples for which the score is 0. And we interpret that the score corresponds to class posterior log odds.

Or if you prefer, we assume that the scores represents class posterior log odds so that the separation surface becomes the score equal to 0. So we assume linear separation rule. The separation rule should be a family of linear rules. Which rules? Well, those that are perpendicular to W with a bias B, and such that the score for a sample, that is W transpose X plus B, can be interpreted as class posterior log goals. So we start from the score itself. We say that the score represents prior-posterior Logoth, and that the form of the score is an affine function. So we assume that the score represents prior Logoth, and since we want linear separation rules in this context, we assume that this function is a linear function,

W transpose X plus B. So assumption, discriminative model, the score for binary task, the score represents a prior logots, and then the separation rule that is the score equal to zero should be a linear function. So W transpose X plus B equal to zero, and the score is W transpose X plus B. What are W and B here? Well, W and B here are the model parameter. As we change W and B, we are changing the way we divide the classes.

So, generative model, we're doing what?

Just to draw a parallel.

In generative model, we had that we were describing class conditional. as a parametric function. The class conditional would depend on parameters.

Here we have that what we describe is the form of the decision rules and the interpretation of the score. We want linear separation rules, so we define the separation rule and, of course, the separation surface is equal to S equal to zero. This defines what, as a consequence, we have an expression for the class posterior probability,

which is a function of W and B. So, here we had a generative model. we were modeling through parametric families the class conditional distributions, here we have a parametric model of the class posterior distribution directly, which comes from different assumptions. Here the assumption was on the distribution of the samples of each class. Here it's on the distribution of the class posterior probabilities. We can make an even more interesting parallel. If we look at how the two models describe the joint density for the sample and the classes. The joint density in both cases,

and this essentially defines how we represent the, describe the two models, model, the world. The joint density in both cases is a parametric function, the parameters of the model. But in the generative world, the joint density will be a parametric class conditional times a non-parametric prior, typically. So the prior is not part of the model.

And we are interested in modeling this term. here we are essentially using the other

the other we're using the other the composition the joint is the posterior times the marginal for X And in this case, we have a marginal that does not depend on the parameters. What depends on the parameters is the posterior class probability. How? Well, in the generative model, we would have, for example, that this was a Gaussian density. Here, for example, we have the class posterior probability for class 1 has this form. but they come from the two ways that we can use to describe the joint density in one case we put the focus on class conditional and then the prior is not it's relevant for the classification but it's not something that we directly model or if we are interested in modeling

we said typically we don't use the training set where we used to estimate the class conditional to model it in the discriminatory world we use the opposite the composition we are not interested in modeling the joint distribution of the features as a whole but we are interested in modeling directly the class posterior probabilities how well in the generative model for example we would say class condition are normal density with parameters for the two classes here we have a parametric model for the class posterior probabilities the parameters are w and b as we change w and b the class posterior probability for class one will change you may ask are there values of w and b that i cannot use no because this exponential

this class posterior probabilities well behaved in the sense that all the values for the class posterior probabilities will be always between zero and one why because what is below here is always greater or equal well actually it's always greater than one because exponential of something is always positive once plus positive is always greater than one one divided that is always lower than one and since both terms are positive it's also greater than zero so this is well behaved for any value of w and b so we can make w and b the parameters of the model with the assumption that this W and B represents the separation surface and the score W transpose X plus B represents log posterior probabilities,

this gives us the expression for the class posterior probability. So, gives us an expression for class posterior probability. So, we have solved the first step. Find an expression for the class posterior probability Here's a function of parameters, W and B that represents now the separation surface, and the samples X. So, rather than trying to describe the distribution of the features, and then from the distribution of the features infer the separation rule, here we assume that the separation rule belongs to a parametric family of possible separation rules. So we assume that this will be linear. And then we try to figure out what are good values of W and B, what is a good separation rule. How we figure out a good separation rule?

By giving an interpretation to this W and B, how the interpretation links W and B to class posterior probabilities by saying that W transpose X plus B represents posterior log odds. And this is where we work by analogy. We took this analogy from the Tide Gaussian. In the Tide Gaussian, that was true for W and B that depended on the class mean and covariance matrix. Here, we assume that analogy for any model, for any value of W and B. We assume that if we have a W and B, they represent posterior long odds. so that this defines a model for the class posterior probabilities. That's why it's explicitly for once.

So it defines a model that, given W and B, gives us a class posterior probability. And we know that this defines a separation rule that is linear because that was the starting point. The starting point is this. So, the separation rule is compare this with zero. The separation surface is when this is exactly zero, and the posterior probability is this form. So, that's all a consequence of assuming that the score is this form and represents posterior log odds, log probabilities. Now, the sig-blend function, how does it look like? the sigmoid function as a function of the score as this S-like shape when the score is zero the sigmoid function is equal to one half that makes sense remember that this is true so when S is zero the probability for class one is one half when the score is zero

I am exactly on the separation boundary the probability for the two classes is the same remember that the probability for class 0 is 1 minus the probability for class 1 so once I have an expression for this I know both probabilities of the two classes so I just need to specify the probability for class 1 actually this 1 minus the sigmoid of the score which we can show is also the sigmoid of minus the score so the sigmoid has this symmetric behavior when I move in this way the way this the shape of this is the same as the shape of the other side flip so it's symmetric with respect to this point

and then the derivative we don't really care because we are not going to use it explicitly. So now we have a model for class posterior probabilities. We have defined a parametric model, a decision of surface W transpose X plus B equal to zero. Well, the parametric model is a score is defined as W transpose X plus B and corresponds to posterior logots, which induces a separation rule to score greater or lower than zero in the separation surface the score equal to zero is the separation surface problem how we compute w and b in the generative model w and b were given from the generative model we would recover w and b but now here we make the assumption that we have w and b but we don't model explicitly

where this w and b come from so we need to figure out a way to estimate this w and b so how can we decide for example that if we have a set of samples like this how can we decide that this blue separation rule is better than this green one which is better than

this yellow one how can we decide which one is best for our for for our task so the problem is we need to figure out which value we want to use for our model our classification model in the application model will require that we have chosen which among all possible families among all possible separation rules that are linear that I can have in my sample space in my feature space I want to use so changing W and B will change the separation rule which one should I pick now that's the problem of learning the separation we require that we have chosen which among all possible families among all possible separation

rule from the data. How did we solve the learning problem in the generative model? How did we address learning the model parameters in the generative framework? How did we learn the model parameters for the Gaussian models? Hmm? Yes, but how? Trading what?

So, we used a criterion that was maximize the likelihood of what? Of the observed features. We saw that in the generative model. What did we do? We defined the likelihood function. Okay, as a function of the parameters, the likelihood.

how was the likelihood defined well the likelihood is the joint

density for all it's a training set so we have the joint density of everything involved so all the training set sample all the training set labels given the model parameter this is the definition of the likelihood. And we assumed that the samples of the pairs of feature vector and class label were identically distributed and independent given the model parameters. This was the starting point. We'll keep these assumptions. So, we assume that when we have a pair of feature vector and corresponding cross label, if we know the model parameters, the value of the feature vector and cross label doesn't tell us anything about other samples.

Now, let's go back to the generative. In the generative model, how did we, which means essentially that the likelihood becomes a product over the samples of the joint density for each pair sample and corresponding class label. These are all observed values. So, here I will put X and C. Here I will put X1 through Xn, C1 through Cn. And here again, I don't have an eye for this random variable because all these are assumed to be distributed as some generic X and C. Now, generative models. Generative models, we said we use the following factorization.

So, we have a class condition given the class label for the observed sample, if you want to let's put I so we remember these are the observed sample, times a class prior and we made this parametric. So, when we wanted to optimize the log likelihood.

this would become a sum of logarithm of class conditional densities plus a term that was not parametric. Remember, we said this does not depend on the parameters that we want to maximize. Maximum likelihood solution, take this term, the class conditional densities, and maximize that as a function of the model parameters. with the NVG model this would be what this would be the sum over classes of the sum of the sample that belong to that class of the log density of the normal density given the parameters of that class this was the NVG example and the maximization depended on our factorization class conditional times prior that does not depend on the parameters we are learning from the training

set now let's see how the likelihood would work for the discriminatory model we can imagine we follow the same strategy let's maximize the likelihood of the observed samples in this case our joint is factorized how? Well, by its rule. Joint of A and B, A given B times probability of B, or B given A times probability of A. We have both factorization. So, we can write this as probability.

I'll put all the O here.

Where do we put the parameters? Our parametric model defines a model for the class posterior probabilities. So the parameters would appear here. So actually, if you want, I will make space here for the parameters and I will now put them when they belong to.

So, we don't have a specification on the density, on the marginal density of X. X is what? X is the distribution of the samples of the data set seen as a whole. So, not of any class, but all the data sets, samples, all the samples ignoring their label. So, for example, if you have a binary problem, we are talking about binary, but this holds for any number of classes what do i mean the data set seen as a whole that if i have let's make a binary problem there's the distribution of the samples seen as a single set of samples so as if i had this data so it's a distribution of this data there's the margin for x which, by the way, which, by the way, nothing.

Now, the log likelihood looks like what? It's a sum of an I of the log joint,

which means it's a sum of log posterior probabilities. plus long of marginal now notice that to solve the classification rule if we know the posterior probabilities we know everything so here this marginal we didn't parameterize it but do we need to parameterize it somehow does learning anything on this gives us more information on this since this is already a parametric function the answer is not whatever is the value of the marginal we can maximize this expression we have maximized the log likelihood as a function of the parameters of the class posterior which means that the class posterior that we find is the class posterior probability that maximize the likelihood whatever is the value of the marginal so we don't

need to model explicitly the marginal as here we didn't need to model the prior information here we don't need to model the distribution of the feature vector of the features of the data set as a whole it's a marginal so it's the whole distribution of the features vectors are considered all together.

We can maximize just this term, that is the term that depends on the model parameters that we wanted to learn. This term depends on the model parameters that we wanted to learn, and it describes how we assign class posterior probabilities according to our model. So, maximizing the likelihood of corresponds to maximizing this term. But each of these term looks like what?

This is what? Well, if CI is one, we will have sigmoid of the score, which is a function of WMB. If CI is zero, we will have one minus sigmoid of the score. Do not have the X, let's write it easy. a little bit we have sigmoid of w transpose x plus b when ci is equal to 1 and will be sigmoid of 1 minus sigmoid of w transpose x plus b when ci is equal to 0. So, this is now a function of W and B. Notice that CI are given. These are the values of the class labels for our samples.

And what is the exercise are given? What we need to maximize this expression with respect to are W and B. So, we can optimize the model by finding the W and B that maximize the likelihood. The likelihood is the same likelihood that we defined for the dataset. So, the joint density of all of everything that I have observed, the feature vectors and the corresponding class labels, But now, using a factorization of the likelihood, it highlights the class posterior as a parametric function whose parameters we want to learn, and the marginal as something that we don't care because it doesn't affect the shape of the marginal, will not affect our classification because once we know the class posterior probabilities,

we have everything we need to perform our classification task. Once we have a for expression for class posterior probabilities, we can use that expression to do classification as we did before. We can compute class posteriors. We can plug in costs. we can make decisions based on the cost that we have in the class posterior probabilities.

Questions up to here?

Okay, so we need, here the slides do exactly this expression. We now need to maximize this expression. now let's give a bit more interpretation to this expression we said that our model defines class posterior probability for a sample so if we have a sample x it computes the class and of course if we have for a given set of value w and b in the sample x it computes cast posterior probability given x and let's put it in this way now let's make it explicitly that the parameters are w and b so that we remember that the posterior probability depend on w and b w and b here are not random variables but it is to remember that the posterior probability depend on w and b which is sigmoid of darwin transpose xi plus b let's call this value yi

class possible probability for class zero is equal to one minus yi this is what well the class is a binary variable it's a variable who a random variable which can take values 1 and 0. It will take value 1 with probability y1, and it will take value 0 with probability, of course, 1 minus yi. What is the distribution of a random variable that can take values 0 or 1 with a probability p? How did we call that random variable?

It can take 1 or 0. Say it aloud again. This is the distribution of a Bernoulli random variable. So the class posterior probability behaves like a Bernoulli random variable whose parameter P is not P, it's Yi. So, XI given CI, sorry, the opposite. CI given XI equal X, W, and B is Bernoulli distributed with a parameter that is sigmoid of W transpose X plus B. So, sigmoid of the score, I, of course, and the sigmoid, we call it YI, it's the parameter of the Bernoulli.

We are seeing that for the Bernoulli, we have what? That if we have observed values C1, C2, C3, Cn, or in general, if we have a random variable that takes value C, small c, we have that the probability of the observed small c for a Bernoulli random value. So consider a generic Bernoulli random value distributed as a Bernoulli of parameter p. The probability that this is equal to small c is what? Is p when c is equal to 1 and is 1 minus p when the value is 0. But we have seen that a better way to represent this probability when we introduce the Bernoulli random variable was we can express this as what? How did we represent this probability in a compact form?

Do you remember this expression? No, probably not. And we said that a compact way to write these two cases, we say that the probability is P to the power C times 1 minus P to the power 1 minus C. When C is equal to 1, I get P. When C is equal to 0, I get 1 minus P. So, exactly the same as the two cases. So, if we have a random variable that is Bernoulli distributed, the probability that that random variable, its value small c, that is what we observed, can be written as the probability to the power small c times 1 minus that probability to the power 1 minus ci. so imagine that we have a training set where we have for example our hate recognition problem where our feature vector is just a single value and then we have a class label

something like this so we have let's say you want male to be one or zero choose one or zero one okay what is the probability here well let's say we have some w and b so this is x1 x2 x3 so the score for x1 would be this w now would have only a single component because we have a one-dimensional data set so it would be w1 times 174 plus b this would be the score as a function of w and b the only component of w times the only component of feature vector x1 plus the bias it's a function of the model parameters remember that w and b are the model parameters so these are what we are looking for if i give you w and b you can compute the score for that sample and the corresponding label is c1 equal to 1 c2 is also equal to 1 c3 is 0 c4 is 0 and c5 is equal to 1.

So the like of the probability remember that what we want to optimize is the sum of the logarithm of the probability of c i mean equal to small c i even x i equal to small x i w and b which is what? What? is the sum over i of the logarithm of the probability that the class is equal to one given that xi is equal to 174 for the first one so let's remove the sum plus the logarithm that the class is equal to one given that x is equal to 178 plus the logarithm that the class of probability that the class is equal to zero given that x is 165 plus logarithm the probability is equal to zero given 175 plus the rate of probability being one given 182 which if we If we were to compute explicitly, we would have for the first one, we would have sigmoid

of W174 plus B. Then we have plus and logarithm of this, plus logarithm of sigmoid of W1, 178 plus B. Then the third one is class zero. So, plus logarithm of 1 minus sigmoid of here W1 times 165 plus B and so on for all the others. So, this is a function of W and B. We can plug the values of the class labels. We can plug the values of the feature samples and we can solve that function. Now, rather than working here every time with the sigmoid of W and 1 minus when the point is from class 1 and 1 minus the sigmoid when the point is from class 0, we use the general expression for the class posterior probability for the distribution of a Bernoulli density. So we will write in general the probability that the class is equal CI

given that the sample is equal to Xi, W, and B. The logarithm of this will be the logarithm of what? the nulli density yi to the power ci times one minus yi to the power one minus ci where yi is sigmoid of w transpose xi plus b so it's actually logarithm of sigmoid of w transpose xi plus b to the power ci times one minus sigmoid of w transpose xi plus b to the power one minus ci which is equal to what? Logarithm of Yi to the power of Ci plus logarithm of 1 minus Yi to the power 1 minus Ci which is equal to Ci logarithm of Yi plus 1 minus Ci logarithm of 1 minus Yi. Or if you prefer Ci logarithm of sigmoid of W transpose Xi plus B plus 1 minus CI logarithm of 1 minus sigmoid of W transpose XI plus B.

And this is for one sample. If we want to compute that for all samples, we need to sum over samples. Then finally, these CIs are the label. So for class 1, we will plug CI equal to 1 for the first sample. For the second sample, we will plug CI equal to 1. For the third, we will plug CI equal to 0. So we write this expression, putting the values of CIs that we have in our training set and the values of XIs that we have in our training set for all the samples as a function of W and B. This gives a value. So if we fix W and B, we can compute the value of this function, putting inside all the values that we have for the class labels of our training set and for the samples of our training set. So, the maximum likelihood solution corresponds to looking for the W and B that maximize this expression.

Again, remember that Yi is a function of W and B. So, when you write everything in terms of Yi, W and B and the samples are hidden inside Yi, but they didn't disappear. Yi is a function of Xi, W and B. So, they are not hidden and disappeared here. They are inside the YI. And the CIs are given. They are the training set labels. So, we compute this expression. We maximize a function of WNB. The goal is finding the maximum of this expression. If we can maximize this expression, we will find a set of WNB that corresponds to the maximum likelihood solution for WNB. So W and B, under which the class probabilities have the highest probability. Sorry, the observed class label have the highest probability

according to the model that we gave for the class labels. The model that we gave is that probability of class 1 given X is exponential of W transpose X. Sorry, it's 1 over 1 plus exponential of minus W transpose X plus B. This is what the model defines, the relationship that the model gives between class posterior probabilities and the model parameters. So we find the model parameters W and B, under which the observed class labels have the highest probability of appearing. So maximum likelihood, but made in terms of a model for class posterior probabilities, rather than a model of feature vectors of each class.

Okay. Now, this, of course, we will not solve in closed form. we will not be able to write w equal to something of

to some function of the data in a closed form with a closed form expression to solve this we will see that in the laboratory when we start working with this which will be

at least two weeks from now because today we have the laboratory on bias next week we don't have a new laboratory so we will have the discussion and at home you will keep working on the bias laboratory i hope because that's fairly long but you have two weeks to work on that then in three weeks from now we will finally no in two weeks from now we will see the laboratory about this part here we will not solve this explicitly we will use what is called a numerical solver that we find as a solution how essentially we'll try different values of w and b choosing starting from an initial set of values and trying to find a way to find that each iteration a new set of values w and b which are better until it gets to a point where it converges to a solution

that hopefully will be the maximum of this expression. We'll see how to do that in the laboratory. We will not need to write the numerical solver. This will be given. We'll say a couple of words on how it works, but we will just need to be able to compute this function as a function of W and B, and then the solver, once we are able to do this, and we will see to compute the gradient of the function with respect to W and B, it will give us the solution that maximize the function. We see that we can even do without the gradient, but the model will be a bit slower. But we can even do it without the gradient if the data set is small.

Now, last thing that I say is that maximizing this expression, that is maximum likelihood solution, corresponds to minimizing minus the same expression. If we take the same expression and we put a minus in front, again, if we are maximizing a function, maximizing a function corresponds to minimizing minus that function. So, we can solve the problem as maximization of the likelihood. We can also cast the problem as minimization of this expression. This expression is called cross-entropy. it's called cross entropy or binary cross entropy between the distribution of observed and predicted labels and represents two ways to describe the data set and it measures how much these two ways agree in which sense

well the class posterior probabilities yi remember that yi is the class posterior probability according to what? W and B. So, we can say according to our classifier that uses W and B as classification rule. And the other is what? It's the class label. The class label can itself be interpreted as a distribution. In which sense? Well, the cross-entropy is defined as, if we have two distributions, P and Q, as minus the sum of P of X times log Q of X, so it's minus the expected values of the logarithm of Q measured through the distribution P, which is the distribution P here. Q is the distribution according to the recognizer. P is the label distribution of an evaluator who knows the actual data distribution.

So an evaluator who knows the class labels is we put a distribution of the samples that can be interpreted as if we know the class label, we can describe this in terms of a distribution that is what? It's a Bernoulli distribution whose parameter is the class label itself. So the probability that the class is 1 is 1 when the class is actually 1. Well, while the probability that the class is 1 is 0 when the class label is 0. The opposite, the probability that the class label is zero is zero when the class label is one, and is one when the class label is zero. So the evaluator describes the class label as a Bernoulli, where the class label itself can be interpreted as the probability of the corresponding class label,

while the recognizer uses a distribution that is defined by the model. and minimizing the cross-entropy tries to make the two distributions agree in the sense that we can show that the cross-entropy is minimized when Q is equal to P. So, minimizing the cross-entropy tries to bring the distribution of the class label as seen by the recognizer as close to as possible as the empirical distribution of the class label. So, the class label or the distribution of the class label according to somebody who knows the cost labels we come back to this next time questions up to here

okay so we're done for today and we have the laboratory in 10 minutes for the others for the first squad
